I'm having a blast being here on NeoCities and getting to meet other folks who are making all these amazing websites I see. Here on Netizen's Homepage I'm featuring maximum dorkitude including my analog art, writing for table top games, and the music I write and record. In the process of putting together this digital home I am re-learning how to do HTML, teaching myself obsolete HTML tricks, and building hundreds of obnoxious custom animated GIFs. Looking forward to letting people know about this project and letting folks have fun surfing the site. What a creatively fun and slightly dumb project this all has been (my favorite kind)! Sign the Guest Book and leave your NeoCities site, I'll be sure to feature a link to your page.

- James

Here are some writings I've done. A couple articles from an analog zine of obsessive dork-culture, INTO THE WORMHOLE, that I'll be releasing in 2022. My design document from my aborted DECAYING ORBIT project (a Nintendo NES videogame / spacerock album / comic book project). And a few behind-the-scenes pages for table-top role playing games that I ran and/or played in. And the WUVABLE OAF comic we wrote (thanks to Ed Luce for letting me reprint it here). Click on the images to read.

MARVEL TSR 1986
(A 1986-themed Marvel Super-Heroes roleplaying game, ran using the original TSR Advanced MSH box set.)

The Pitch

It is time for some true Playing With Power, true believers!

The year is 1986, arguably the single greatest twelve months in the history of American comics. It is also the year the Space Shuttle Challenger exploded, Halley's Comet returns for the first time since 1910, the Chernobyl nuclear plant disaster, the first PC virus is unleashed, the Soviets launched the MIR space station, the New York Mets crushed the Boston Red Sox, global tensions escalate as talks between Ronald Regan and Mikhail Gorbachev completely break down… and the MARVEL SUPER HEROES ADVANCED BOX SET was released! What better year for superhero origins?!

Captain America has been stripped of his costume by the US Government, the FALL OF THE MUTANTS is decimating the X-Men comics, Matt Murdock is homeless after being crushed by the Kingpin, a now-sober Tony Stark is back in armor, Storm has a mohawk but no powers, Ben Grimm is still on the Beyonder's Battleworld, Eddie Brock appears for the first time, and Jean Grey is discovered alive at the bottom of the bay and X-FACTOR is formed.

The year of MASTER OF PUPPETS, LICENSED TO ILL, I AGAINST I, REIGN IN BLOOD, TRUE BLUE, QUITE UNUSUAL, THE QUEEN IS DEAD. Also METROID, LEGEND OF ZELDA, ALEX KIDD IN MIRACLE WORLD, BUBBLE BOBBLE. In the cinema is ALIENS, TOP GUN, PRETTY IN PINK, LABYRINTH and OPTIMUS PRIME getting killed on the big screen in front of 990 movie theaters full of kids.

Also in comics this is the year of WATCHMEN, DARK KNIGHT RETURNS, CRISIS ON INFINITE EARTHS, ELEKTRA ASSASSIN, THE ROCKETEER, BAD COMPANY, THE TICK and MAUS. We're no longer waiting for the revolution, people. The revolution is here.

And right smack dab in the middle of this transitory year of Bronze Age to Post-Modern Age of superheroes… there are THE PRODIGIES. Five new young Marvel super heroes (age range from 16 - 19) that you create and adventure with!

You have had one or two adventures previously, run in the pages of third-string books like MARVEL PREMIERE or TALES TO ASTONISH or even a minor role in FANTASTIC FOUR or WEST COAST AVENGERS or NEW MUTANTS. Perhaps you were side-kicking, or it could be on your own, but… with mixed results. Seeing a classified ad in THE DAILY BUGLE for a sidekick support group that meets in the backroom of ELECTRIC PENGUINS, a chic new-wave boutique in the section of New York City known as Soho (see X-FACTOR issue #5), you meet and form the newest Marvel super team!

THE PRODIGIES #1 is a listen-I've-got-bills-to-pay book by the deadline-crunching team of Mark Gruenwald and Bob Layton. And it debuts this February! In 1986! AND WE ARE GOING TO CREATE IT TOGETHER!

DECLARATION: Recorder 999 is online!

STATEMENT: Rigellian Recorder unit 999 is a sentient humanoid robot built to explore space's undiscovered territories and report back to his creators, the technocratic Rigellian empire on Rigel-3 at the edge of the Black Galaxy. During an accident transporting a faulty Rigellian Cosmoreceptor Pod, a technological device containing the compressed knowledge of their civilization for the purposes of colonization of new worlds, Recorder 999's capacitors were overloaded and circuitry permanently altered, corrupting 999's precious library tapes and driving the unit mad.

Eccentric, haphazzard, megalomaniacal, sometimes cruel, and often forgetful, 999 has decided (against Rigellian orders) his new mission is to be focused upon the future observation of the adventures of a young group of Earth heroes based in New York City known as The Prodigies. In his eternal state of immortal madness Recorder 999 now refers to himself by a myriad of strange aliases including "Gee-Em," "judge," "gamemaster," and "James."

The Game

The Prodigies Graphic Novel
Marvel Graphic Novel #21 (the GN between GREENBERG THE VAMPIRE and AMAZING SPIDER-MAN: HOOKY)

Featuring the "Mutant Massacre Cocktail" an original adult libation cocktail created just for this game by Kirsten Baldock. (Thanks for letting me share your recipe, Kirsten!)

Opening Soundtrack
PRETENDERS - Don't Get Me Wrong

Welcome to June 1st, 1986. New York, New York. Your home. It's a balmy Sunday afternoon in the City That Never Sleeps.

The sound of car horns blare. Steam wafts mysteriously from manhole covers. The smell of pancakes wafts from a nearby Howard Johnsons. A TDK Tapes neon sign buzzes overhead. A copy of the Soho Weekly News blows past in the street. A couple girls roller-skate by in neon headbands and tight fitting Italians Do It Better shirts. A song about shoes from the new Run DMC album plays on Hot 97 from a nearby boombox. Last week's winning New York Lottery ticket number was 8 10 20 41 42 48 3. But none of you are 888 dollars richer.

From the Big Hair, Don't Care attitude of Midtown, to hardscrabble backalleys of and graffiti-covered subway trains of the South Bronx, to me-generation men with briefcases rushing down 57th street, to crack dealers and junkies on Elmhurst, to trendy art galleries and bohemians of SoHo, to fingerless dead bodies in residential Pelham Bay Park. Welcome to New York, New York. The big city of dreams.

There's an unease in the air. Tensions between the Kremlin and Reagan are on the rise again and protests about non-organic life are back in the news again after an ULTRON head attacked a Red Cross worker in California. You saw the government-sanctioned super-powered team FREEDOM FORCE rounding up muties in the park the other day enforcing Senator Kelly's Mutant Registration Act.

Al Capone's vault was empty.

It sucks to be a teenager.

But things aren't all bad. It's summer in The Big Apple. While some of you were born here, and others have just arrived… you're all New Yorkers now.

And New York in June 1986 is a pretty great place to be a young person and discovering your new super-powers.

One day, while checking movie time listings for TOP GUN (or maybe it was Stallone's COBRA or POLTERGEIST II) in the Daily Bugle you happened across an ad in the Classifieds….

YOUNG, SUPER-POWERED AND ALONE?
Teen heroes, sidekicks, and powered juves only
The Prodigies Super-Powered Support Group
Meetings on Sunday, backdoor of ELECTRIC PENGUINS.
Prince & Wooster, 2pm.

Of course your first reaction is WHO CARES?! But something about that ad nags at you. What would it be like to have some friends your age who can relate to the strange changes you've been going through? So you made your way to SoHo, where cast iron buildings stand and street art hangs. The familiar feel of the old cobblestones of Wooster street underfoot (or wheel, depending on how you arrive) eases your nervousness and builds the anticipation. Butterflies dance in your stomach as you wonder just who will you meet at this Prodigies Super-Powered Support Group? What will these fellow powered juves be like?!

And then you're there, at Prince and Wooster. Sitting between Pino's Prime Meats and Santino Bros Lucky Pawn Shop is the chic SoHo new wave fashion boutique known as ELECTRIC PENGUINS (see X-Factor issue #5, 1986). A catchy bubbly new wave song you don't know can be heard playing in the shop (whoever works there is obviously much hipper than you are). There's a small walkway between the Electric Penguins store and Santino Bros Lucky Pawn Shop with a sign with an arrow reading BACK DOOR.

You take a step forward… and suddenly you realize you're not alone…

Gameplay Soundtrack - New York, 1986 playlist
BALTIMORE - Trazan Boy
BIG AUDIO DYNAMITE - E=MC2
MANTRONIX - Music Madness
THE CURE - In Between Days
PSYCHEDELIC FURS - Pretty In Pink
MADONNA - Papa Don't Preach
OMD - If You Leave
IGGY POP - Real Wild Child
TALKING HEADS - Wild Wild Life
LEVEL 42 - Something About You
THE SMITHEREENS - Blood And Roses
TALKING HEADS _ And She Was
LL COOL J - Rock The Bells
PUBLIC IMAGE LTD - Rise
A-HA - The Sun Always Shines On TV
TRANS-X - Living On Video

Closing Soundtrack
CAMEO - Word Up!

-------

KATASTROFA - a fast-running, hard-punching Russian teen girl from the Chernobyl accident, who loves American pop music. Has a quick temper & an explosive nuclear result.
(Player: Kirsten Baldock)

FALCO - a displaced Transformer trapped on Earth who doesn't trust humans. Based on the 1985 Suzuki Falcorustyco Prototype motorcycle.
(Player: Josh Richardson)

LYRIC - a shy, sound-manipulating mutant. She wears a lot of pink & plays the ukulele to generate sonic blasts.
(Player: Katie Longua)

ECLIPSE - a straight-edge punk rock mutant runaway teleporter with access to the extra-dimensional Darkforce energy. Lives in the NYC sewers.
(Player: Ron Richards)

BLACK BIRD - a telepathic astral-projecting empath who shoots shadow energy. Secretly the gender-bent version of TEEN TITAN's Raven from the SQUADRON SUPREME universe.
(Player: Ash Awaisse)

RECORDER 999 - an insane Rigellian Recorder who is obsessed with observing THE PRODIGIES.
(Game-Master: James Sime)

-------

Original Script, January 2014.

ÜLF THE BERSERKER
Written by James Sime & Kirsten Baldock

Synopsis:

Wuvable Oaf has fallen asleep while playing Fantasy HeroClix and listening to metal albums. He dreams himself as a savage, and heavily ripped barbarian named Ülf. In order to save a captive princess he must enter the spooky Castle Kilmister and do battle with an evil barbarian who lives there... Lemmy in a loincloth! Ülf slays the evil Kilmister and saves the princess... who happens to be the beautiful Morrissey in a chainmail bikini.

-------- Script --------

PAGE ONE

This page has one wide-screen panel across the entire top of the page, though it might be best if it weren’t a tall panel to leave room for height in the action panel below. The top panel has small snoring Zs that swirl down the left side of the page leading the eye into the dream action.

The captions should be on a piece of parchment or something similar, in Ye Olde English-y script. The text is ripped straight from the opening of CONAN: THE BARBARIAN (1982), with a small re-write and some adaptions to reference some albums he's listening to. The first caption can come between the two panels. The second caption is the title of the story, it should be at the bottom of the page and it should be a big thick fantasy logo type thing, made from rocks or iron or meat. Perhaps Will Eisner it up and have gore from the battle dripping or splashing or tumbling onto it.

Panel One
We find our most wuvable Oaf fast asleep amid a pile of Fantasy HeroClix and Metal Albums (including Motorhead, Celtic Frost, Slayer, Bathory, Manowar, these will be influencing Oaf's dream). ZZZZZ snores appear above his head in small letters, each one growing larger and swirling across the left side of the page, which create the fragmented corner of the next panel as we, the readers, are carried through his snoring rumbles into his dream world with him.

Panel Two
Oaf, his beard shaggier than it usually is and his muscles extra ripped, wearing nothing but a loincloth, fur boots and carrying a great battleaxe wages a war against hordes of monsters, slaying them with ferocity. Since we have entered into Oaf's dream fantasy world we're going to pepper it with imagery that he loves, found amongst the covers of his favorite fantasy books, metal albums and 80s Sword & Sorcery movies. This panel is a Frazetta reference, inspired by one of these two famous paintings.

http://frankfrazetta.net/Death_Dealer_2.html
http://isotopecomics.com/frazetta-conan.jpg

CAPTION:
In between the years of the Dawn Of Megiddo and Twilight of the Gods, there was an age undreamed of, when shining kingdoms lay spread across the world like blue mantles under the stars. Hither came...

TITLE CAPTION:
ÜLF, THE BERSERKER

("Dawn of Megiddo" is a Celtic Frost song and "Twilight of the Gods" is a Bathory album.)

PAGE TWO

Panel One
Widescreen panel. Ülf stands in the foreground looking at a grand castle on a hill. This is Castle Kilmister where our antagonist lives, an evil barbarian who looks remarkably like Lemmy Kilmister from Motorhead. His castle is as black metal as it gets, all ancient and foreboding.

If we want to throw a reference in here, Venger's castle from the classic D&D cartoon could be cool (http://www.dungeonsdragonscartoon.com/2010/05/vengers-castle-2.html) or if it is possible to make Castle Kilmister look like the Motorhead logo adapted (like they did on the cover of Orgasmatron: http://www.discogs.com/viewimages?release=2189550) without it looking *too* much like Castle Greyskull, that could be a homerun too. We know you don't get to design too many castles, Ed, so dealer's choice on this one!

CAPTION (upper): Necromantic screams float on a suicidal wind and Ülf's fingers grow tight on his battle axe as the full imposing horror of CASTLE KILMISTER comes to view under the glow of the Hunter's Moon.

CAPTION (lower): A shudder of anticipation dances up his loins as he presses onward. Somewhere inside the feculent walls of that dark fortress is a princess to save. And the evil Barbarian Kilmister to wet his blade upon.

Panel Two
This is a total beefcake shot of our hero tearing open the castle door, his muscles bulging and rippling with the strain. Inspired by this classic scene from the bible:
http://eborg3.com/Bible-Alphabetical/S/600-Samson-Pillars2243.jpg

CAPTION: And nothing will stand in his path.

Panel Three
Widescreen panel. From the perspective of looking from behind a silhouetted “damsel in distress,” whose hands are chained together above her head, we see our antagonist, Lemmy from Motorhead in a loincloth (or really, really tiny furry short shorts. Like this: https://netizen.neocities.org/images/lemmy-shorts.jpg

In Lemmy's hands he is holding a spiky steel mace. He's got his famous snaggletooth grin (A HREF="http://www.grayuk.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/lemmy-200lvg032409.jpg"> http://www.grayuk.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/lemmy-200lvg032409.jpg) and he's got that wild Lemmy look in his eyes.

The damsel in the foreground is in a classic fantasy bondage pose so the reader can get a nice look at her shapely silhouetted form, with hands chained over her head. We're teasing the readers with this feminine form, but it shouldn't be too feminine, as we'll be surprising them with the reveal that the "princess" is actually Morrissey in a Red Sonja style bikini. We don't know about you, but Kirsten and I kind of assume Moz has something of a curvy butt.

The Kilmister is the focus of this panel, with the damsel secondary. If you can fit Ülf into this panel in some capacity that would be cool, otherwise we can have his dialog (in a shouty box?) come from off panel.

ÜLF: KILMISTER!

Panel Four

Wide screen panel. ACTION! Having rushed toward one another the barbarians clash at the center of the panel, Ulf’s battle axe and Lemmy’s mace crossed between them. Perhaps a shadowy outline of the “feminine” figure in the dark recesses of the castle behind them.

PAGE THREE

FIGHT! Three tall vertical panels across the top of the page, the first two divided between half a page’s width and the third taking up half the page’s width. Four panel is widescreen across the entire bottom of the page.

The first two narrow panels depict snippets of the battle, quick flashes of action that you can barely comprehend as if there is too much gore, too much speed, and you are entirely too close.

CAPTION (across the top of the first two panels):
Hearts surging with brutal hatred, the barbarians’ battle unfurls rivers of blood.

Panel One
Extreme close-up of Lemmy (and his moles), his head upturned in his classic singing position to drive home the point in case people are too dumb to figure out who our antagonist is. A large gash across his wildly grinning face.

CAPTION:
Black.

Panel Two
Extreme close-up of the spiked mace tearing passed Oaf’s cheek and beard.

CAPTION:
And red.

Panel Three
DEATH! View from behind Oaf, his battle axe at the bottom of his swing (bottom right), severing Kilmister’s entire torso along the line of Oaf’s swing, the two halves almost exploding away from each other. Although this scene is pretty brutal, you can draw this as gory or as comical as you want it to be.

ÜLF: KILLED BY DEATH!

Panel Four
Wide screen panel across the bottom.

SEX! This panel we reveal Kilmister's captive on a bearskin rug (because a bearskin rug is sure to send shudders of anticipation dancing up our readers' loins), still in shackles (again with the dancing and the loins) but with links of broken chains around so you can tell that the ever so manly Ülf has now broken them with his bare hands.

We see our "princess" dressed in a Red Sonja-esque chain mail bikini ... it's Morrissey!

Have fun deciding how much to twink or butch Moz up, but whatever you choose please do draw him as sexy and succulent as possible. Ron will like that.

ÜLF: You are free now to show your gratitude, wench.

PAGE FOUR

Full Page Splash - this is the money shot!

Ülf rides triumphantly upon his mighty steed, a large and ferocious war cat (by which we mean a giant and totally adorable version of one of your big cute kitties!), his battleaxe raised defiantly.

Chain mail bikini-ed Morrissey is draped across the back of the cat in the classic fashion of the just-saved fantasy damsel in time-honored faux-Frazetta style.

We find this quite inspirational:
http://www.notzombies.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/frazetta-jc0.jpeg

End.

Thanks for letting me share this Ed!

Gamma World
2019

Opening Soundtrack
Iron Horse - “Come As You Are (Nirvana cover)”

Welcome back to The Smokies, and the Puke Family Homestead where you grew up. Right here on the outskirts of Septicville.

Septicville locals are right proud of the town's beautiful and scenic overlooks of The Smokies. Now don't get it wrong here, friend, there's no mountains here - The Smokies are two massive still-smoking nuclear craters where warring soldiers were vaporized long ago, Septicville's glorious souvineers and rememberances from the long ago Ford - Chevy Wars. Today you can catch the most beautiful sunsets here on the edge of The Smokies, as toxic green clouds waft up from the craters of scorched Earth and catch and refract the day's final sunbeams and sparkle like a thousand christmas tree lights even into the night. Septicville folks are generally friendly folks, even to outsiders, but even so, very few know of the natural beauty of The Smokies At Night, as the rad count is a might bit unfriendly to tourists. And you'll want to be careful going near that Ford Crater if you know what's good for you. There's been unspeakable radioactive things shambling out of there for as long as any Puke Family can remember.

The Puke Family is a strong family who has been right here on the outskirts of Septicville for generations upon generations. The family is perhaps a bit misunderstood, but has always been known to the citizens of Septicville as a rambunctious lot, full of healthy youngins with good inbreeding. Being a family with a wild hair inbred up their asses, they have something of a history of clashes with the local law. Particularly with that darn Sheriff Merle, who is crookeder than Mutie Dog's hind leg. And smells of urine too. Sheriff Merle, and the always-sweaty town overlord, Mayor Barrow, and those Rat Deputies of theirs have caused no end of headaches for pretty much everyone in radiation-burn distance to The Smokies. And especially your loose-cannon, wild bunch of an inbred family!

Uncle Elmer is the kindly Puke Family Patriarch, with a round belly full of laughs and an always smiling frog-like face. Plenty of townsfolk call him "Uncle Elmer" even though they're probably not his kin. But then again knowing Uncle Elmer's charming ways with both lady and beast alike, maybe they are. You have lots of great childhood memories of growing up with Uncle Elmer, foraging for Glow-Shrooms in the Tar Pits, fishing for Bloodworms in the nearby Grease Trap, and BBQ-ing juicy Escrotes over a burning Chevy Malibu. He keeps the recipe a secret but it's not a secret that no one in the whole county makes better BBQ sauce than Uncle Elmer!

You've all been out in the Rad Zones for a while. But now you've come home for a family reunionizing for The Smokies Annual Summertime Jamboree. Family cousin / friend Burl "Twelve Toes" Tolliver has a knack for breeding giant mutant Dung Beetles for the Jamboree Dung Beetle Pile-in' Contest each year. And this year the family is sure he's going to take home the Grand Prize!

So you've come home for a Puke Family Reunionizing to support Cousin Burl. And you'll be doing it in luxury this year as you'll all be staying at the Gran Hotel at Gobber Farm right near the scenic Chevy Smokie Crater. Gobbie says the radiation isn't so bad out there this year. You can't help but feel your heart swell with family pride and your mouth is just a-watering thinking about sinking your teeth into Uncle Elmer's juicy BBQ Escrotes!

CHARACTER CREATION & INTRODUCTIONS

Imma Puke - Radioactive Doppelganger Mutant (Kirsten Baldock)
Cindy Lu Puke - Empathic Speedster Mutant (Amanda Nicklow)
Cletus Grub Puke - Hawkoid Hypercognitive Mutant (Chuck Nicklow)
Rochan Rochanadanna Puke - Cockroach Giant Mutant (Milena Krayzbukh)
Doctor Jesus Buddha Mohammed Israel (formerly Buddy Puke) - Empathic Hypercognitive Mutant (Ben Johnson)
Petunia Puke - Radioactive Hawkoid (Katie Longua)
Johnny Vomit (too cool for Puke) - Pyrokinetic Mind Coercer Mutant (Josh Richardson)

GRAN HOTEL AT GOBBER FARM

Upon arriving at the Gran Hotel at Gobber Farm you see a worried Uncle Elmer pacing out front. He looks distressed. And, 'fraid to tell you, but he's not BBQ-ing neither. This definitely ain't good.

"It good to see you family. It warm my heart you came all this way outta the Rad Zones to support your Cousin Burl. But... I sad to say today is a sad day for a Family Reunionizing."

"You best talk to Burl. He's a right mess o' worry!"

Out back of the hotel sits Cousin Burl. Burl is a small dirty little man with a face full of kindly pustules and tenderhearted boils who you've known all your life. Cousin Burl is the fancy-pants of the Puke Family and for as long as you can remember each morning when Burl gets up he always puts on the same worn, dust covered black suit and a little tiny black bowler hat on his head. But no shoes. Burl don't cotton no shoes. For the size of his frame Burl's blackened bare feet are huge, thanks to each one having Twelve Toes.

Burl is sitting out back of the Gobber Barn behind the Gran Hotel, lines of clean streaking his face where the weep-juice has run, and dribbling off his shaking double chin. This is some serious business, y'all. You've never seen Burl look so upset in your whole darn life before. At first it appears he's distressed about his Dung Beetle.

"I just can't believe that my Miss Manassas, my Missy, would run away from home... and on the night before the Summertime Jamboree! Oh what am I going to do?! This is a disaster! And it is all my fault! What am I gonna do?!"

When the characters try to get him to calm down he shouts,

"NO NO NO, you don't understand -- Uncle Elmer, he bet the Puke Farm Deed of Ownership with that scuzzbuzz Sheriff Merle! That's how sure he was she'd win the grand prize! We're going to lose the farm! And it's all my fault!"

"You've got to GET THAT DEED BACK!"

----

Guys. This is serious.

(SHOW PICTURE OF THE FARM)

The Puke Cousins decide to get the Deed back from Sheriff Merle and head into town to the Septicville Police Station.

SEPTICVILLE POLICE STATION

The Septicville Police Station is inside an old sawmill mining factory (yes, I accidentally said all of those things... so that's what is is, an old sawmill mining factory) overlooking the picturesque Ford Crater. Growing up all of you spent a lot of time there, sitting through endless lectures from authorities and more than one of you have spent overnight inside the old jail here for a time (we discover soon that Imma Puke most definitely has spent the night in that jail a few times).

Patrol Officer Earl is out front. He's a well-groomed and gosh darn nice looking Human-Sized Mutate Rat (all these cops are rats). You all grew up and went to the One Room Schoolhouse near the Tar Pits with Young Earl and played Sickball with him when you were kids. Earl tries hard to maintain a friendly relationship with everyone in the township despite his job in the not-so-honest local Small Town Governmental Gang. He tries his best to do a good job of protecting the townfolk and takes great joy in helping out old ladies & rescuing kittens from trees. He's a sweet guy. And also mostly kind of real stupid.

Earl is wearing an adorable little Policeman's Uniform which has been freshly pressed and you can tell he's Brylcreemed his fur just this morning. The sweet smell of Ice Blue Aqua Velva Aftershave practically knocks you over as he steps forward upon seeing you. No he didn't shave his fur, but that didn't stop him from putting on some right purdy smelling aftershave this morning. Earl has big goofy Mutate Rat Teeth that shine whiter that the whitest Klansman and he's all smiles when he sees you!

Thanks to the luck of the dice it turns out Earl has a lifelong crush on one of the Puke Family Kin. And I was thrilled that is fell upon Doctor Jesus Buddha Mohammed Israel (formerly Buddy Puke). Earl just isn't smart enough to understand why anything in life changes, much less what kind of change could result from another person's religious awakening (whether true or not). Or that Doctor Jesus Buddha Mohammed Israel might not want to be called "Buddy" any more.

"Well hello, Mister Buddy! You look mighty, mighty fine! I'm so happy to see you, Mister Buddy! I... I heard you might be coming for the Summertime Jamboree! Might... um... might you do me the honor of saving a dance for me at the Ho-Down?!”

This was a funny, awkward moment. Ben just let the whole "Mister Buddy" thing pass. Although he did try to convert Earl to his religion with a picture book! Brilliant.

Suddenly a voice is heard from behind, "Earl, just who is that you talking' to?!"

It's Sheriff Merle, The crooked scheming money-laundering rat faced Human-Sized Mutant Rat. You've known this skinny flea-ridden weasel rat all your life too, and you ain't never liked him. Sheriff Merle policeman's uniform is brand new but completely ill-fitting and rumpled. His fur is matted, and mangey. And he's riding a local "Police Cruiser" - which is a School Bus Sized Mutant Lawn Grub!

"Oh boyo boy! Hahaha it's the Barfs! You Barf Family are in for it now! I don't give a good knowhow what happened to your Dung Beetle... but I sure know what's gonna happen tonight at the Jamboree. Yer Uncle Elmer is gonna lose that bet! And I'm gonna take your Barf Family Farm! Hahaha! Oh Boyo Boy! HAHAHAHA!"

"And as long as I have this here slip of ownership deed paper in my hand right here," Sheriff Merle gloats while waving the Puke Family Farm Deed over his head triumphantly, "There's ain't nothing your stupid Barfs can do about it! HAHAHA!"

Imma Puke "Darn you, Sheriff Merle, we're PUKES an' you knows it!"

"Girl, I don't like your tone. You ALL Barf's is going to JAIL!"

THE BIG BATTLE

The local cops ride massive Lawn Grubs which can run very fast, bite really hard, and squirt out sticky, gooey masses of biting Lawn Grub Babies.

Earl shrieks, "Don't fight! Please don't fight! Oh, I'm so sorry Mister Buddy! Please stop fighting everyone!"

There are Three Mutant Lawn Grubs and three Human Sized Mutant Rat Deputies. Waiting in the wings were two more Grubs, several more Deputies, and also "The Krapper" a massive Mutant Lawn Grub with Cyber Armor and also a Cyber Laser affixed to its head. But since Sheriff Merle got taken out before he could say "Release The Krapper" those never came out. As these mutant rat cops are designed to be recurring antagonist characters for the denizens of Septicville I'm sure there will be another chance to release the Krapper!

Fight highlights include - Imma Puke bashing Sheriff Merle with giant mutant arms and saying "I've had enough of you calling us Barfs, our family name is THE PUKES and you know it!" - Petunia Puke pooping the smallest tiny Hawkoid bird poop in Sheriff Merle's eye - Doctor Jesus Buddha Mohammed Israel puking acid directly into Sheriff Merle's mouth - the hawkoid Cletus Grub Puke clawing the Escrotes right off the Sheriff's Lawn Grub - giant cockroach Rochan Rochanadanna Puke attempting to sit on Sheriff Merle and missing comically - Cindy Lu Puke both stealing the Puke Family Farm Deed from Sheriff Merle and also making a wonderful, impassioned speech to Patrol Officer Earl but completely botching her Charisma Roll so she blasted him to near-death instead with her Gravity Hammer mutant power - followed up by Petunia Puke blasting poor Patrol Officer Earl into a hole in the ground (it was *brutal*). Johnny Vomit mostly concentrated on looking cool amid the chaos, and friend, Johnny's gosh darn good at it!

When Doctor Jesus Buddha Mohammed Israel used some sort of "empathic mind reading" to read everyone's intentions, he ended the fracas. The Rat Deputies just want to keep Sheriff Merle and Patrol Officer Earl from dying (after all, they are supposed to be antagonist characters y'all) and the Lawn Grubs aren't interested in anything but eating and Lawn Grubbin'. And with that knowledge Doctor Jesus Buddha Mohammed Israel calmed everyone down and ended the fight.

The Mutant Rat deputies pleaded, "Just let us tend to our wounded and jes leave us be, you Pukes! Mayor Barrow, stole your stupid Dung Beetle, alright?! Don't tell him we said so - but just leave us be!"

----

Game Soundtracks
Gangstagrass "Rappalachia (Instrumental LP)"
Gangstagrass "Broken Hearts and Stolen Money (Instrumental LP)"

----

Closing Soundtrack
Pine Mountain Railroad - “Don't Stop Believin' (Journey cover)”

Thanks for tunin' in, y'all!

(As a bonus, here is the invite for my previous Gamma World game from 2014 for you to enjoy...)

Bardolf Aemilius-Smythe
Bardolf Aemilius-Smythe has always led a life of adventure. Even as a boy he was known for daring escapades into the furthest reaches of the backyard or for sneaking a spoonful of duck soup when mother wasn't looking. And as an adult he entered the most sensational field of money administration, excitingly growing into that attainable life which several boys dream of, becoming quite very important gentleman of middle-management banking at Birtwistle, Pritchard, Hawkes & Brimble in the slightly affluent part of town. Bardolf prided himself on living his partially splendid banker's lifestyle, complete with somewhat quaint cottage on the bank of Fothergill River (just down the lane from where retired situation vaudeville actress Lulu Popplewell once called home, no less!), with his rather satisfactory wife and his three altogether tolerable children.

When not busy at his work counting other people's money or mollycoddling his considerably passable family, Bardolf indulged himself with periodical pulpwood literature from the nearby Transcendent Librarium of Arcane Esoterica and Acroamatic Miscellanea, checked out with his esteemed Parchment of Weekly Borrowing (they don't just give those out to just anyone, you know)! He devoured the many works that adorned the Librarium's great Wing of Conventional Fictions, including reading Johan Rhind Reuel Tokkenston's famous Kaiser of the Baubles trilogy three times!

But all great lives of adventure are cursed with tragedy, and like the pain Tavick knew when Jojomir fell before Savak's dark forces, Bardolf Aemilius-Smythe too knows painful and tragic loss. Upon returning from work one afternoon he discovered a quite public declaration of his bedchamber shortcomings and that his rather satisfactory wife and his three altogether tolerable children had moved out of their somewhat quaint cottage to go live in the great mansion of one Mister Pritchard of Birtwistle, Pritchard, Hawkes & Brimble. Also a complementary notice of his early retirement discharge, effective immediately.

And, without delay, in that very moment, he was transformed into the great adventurer he is today (actually it was more like 18 months before he even dared step foot outside of his somewhat quaint cottage, but still a quite short time in the grand scheme of things in the adventuresome life of Bardolf Aemilius-Smythe). He marched quickly without hesitation to the greatest book publishers in the realm, with an offer none dared pass up... a real first hand account of truly the grandest of adventures, an unconventional non-fiction that surely would go down in the ages as one of the grandest adventures ever put to parchment written by Bardolf Aemilius-Smythe himself!

With the promise of a 10,000 gold piece authorship advance for what will surely be a greater adventure than even Johan Rhind Reuel Tokkenston could ever dream of and his trusty notebook in hand he heads into the untamed world of adventure, ready to take on any dare, battle any beastie, and bed any fine maiden.

-----

The thinly veiled JRR Tolkien references "Kaiser of the Baubles trilogy " are because this guy is just a big, chubby, dorky fantasy book buff. Also all the the stuff about the book advance is a total lie that he constantly tells people (including the other players) so that they will want to hang out with him. The "Transcendent Librarium of Arcane Esoterica and Acroamatic Miscellanea" is the main branch library. More on that in this second half.

-----

Üblich The Anointed

It is said that the all-knowing goddess Ioun herself sent the greatest seer in all the land to seek out Bibliognost Mächtige, Curator Headmaster Archivistrix of the Transcendent Librarium of Arcane Esoterica and Acroamatic Miscellanea to foretell him of great destiny. He would sire a son during the Solstice of his 50th winter who as future Headmaster would be remembered for all eternity for deeds of true greatness.

And so in the spring of that year, thirty of the finest of the Immaculate Order of Concubintrix were chosen from the Athenaeum and sent to Bibliognost Mächtige's bedchamber to be impregnated. Of those many children born only two arrived during Winter Solstice, twin brothers Üblich and Strahlüng, birthed by the cold but meticulous Archographer Prefect Vollkommena of the Unspeaking Order of the Card Catalogarian.

These births caused much controversy to arise among Sacred Directorate of the Transcendent Librarium of Arcane Esoterica and Acroamatic Miscellanea, for many saw the coming of twins was also foretold in a long-debated passage from the Great Scriptures of Ioun, "Two brothers with one face shalt be born, one to lead the followers of Ioun to a time of prosperity, the other to a prodigious change heretofore unforseen by man or beast." This ominous sounding prophecy led the Librarium's Divine Consortium of Iounic Priests to seclude the brothers to within the great Western Wing where their every movement could be witnessed until it could be ascertained which brother truly was which.

When young Üblich accidentally knocked a candle over onto a book, it was decided. Strahlüng was to be groomed for greatness by the priests and his father himself. And Üblich was left to The Custodial Warden's Union of the Librarium administrators, where an easy eye could be kept over him and he would far too occupied with his labors to cause any real harm. To ensure the twins were never confused, Üblich's face was tattooed with an abstract holy marking of Ioun.

As Strahlüng grew his father's pride swelled, for the boy's thirst for knowledge and instinctual understandings of the perplexing categorization and byzantinian structure of political favor within the great Librarium's walls was unlike any they had seen before. By his early teens Strahlüng had proven to be an exceptional ArchDean of Arcane Esoterica and it was clear from his natural talents he was the son who was prophesied. Despite *also* being the son of Headmaster Bibliognost Mächtige, Üblich's failures were many and his successes were few. By his twentieth year he had risen only to the rank of First Subordinate Assist Librarium Aspirant, a shelver of books.

Üblich's jealousy and resentment of his brother grew with each passing day. Scorned by those who raised him, ignored by those who should love him, and perpetually living in the shadow of his brother... Üblich grew to be the weak, pathetic, and bitter fool everyone assumed he already was. Even in the world of shelving books within the great Librarium he was known for his laziness, for cutting every corner, and for his desperate desire to be considered important.

So it was there, on the marble floor in between the stacks in the Vest Scriptorium that he dared do the unthinkable... he sought to enslave the powers of the immortals. Using forgotten knowledge gleaned from moulded ancient tomes he conducted the forbidden ritual... and sold his soul to Ioun in hopes of gaining great powers. Powers, which he hoped, would help him eclipse his favored brother's status and love.

Amused by Üblich's mortal fumblings, the great Goddess of knowledge Ioun smiled, for despite his many failings as both a follower and a man, she had plans for him.

And that night, Üblich was Anointed, washed in the blood of the Goddess Herself. He was granted tremendous powers and a divine mission to stand up to corrupt rules of kings, tyrants, and businessmen alike that keep both peasants and common folk from the blessing of knowledge. For heralding in a glorious age of scholarly enlightenment and literacy with the establishment and cultivation of regional Libraries in far off lands. And for banishing at long last the secret Vecnan agents who had long ago corrupted the high councils of the Librarium itself, twisting their goals of spreading knowledge to the masses with petty squabbling, ineptitude, and office politics from within the Library's great halls themselves.

His deeds will be those of true greatness... if only he can overcome his failings as a human being.

-----

I envision a huge Vatican style Library this guy grew up in, where they use big and arcane words to make them sound all important and super smart, hence the name of the place is the "Transcendent Librarium of Arcane Esoterica and Acroamatic Miscellanea" - aka "main branch library. He's a book shelver! Yes, I am aware it is a challenging read.

I love loser characters! Most of my RPG characters are beautiful losers of some form. I always try to find a new wrinkle on "loser" concept to give all my loser characters distinct personalities and motivations. Which is always fun to see where my characters will take me.

This was the first time I'd returned to table top RPGs in a number of years and joined a (delightful) group of mostly strangers with a (excellent) first-time DM in 2010-2011. We played 4th edition. This particular game was the first time I'd tried out a loser character who was a boot-licking sycophant. I had a lot of fun playing Üblich! When he was killed in this game trying to prove his worthiness I decided that I wanted to tie my new character, Bardolf, into his origin somehow. And also to continue exploring RPG obsequiousness. So I decided to switch between the two extremes from the kind of "emo sycophant" of Üblich to the "jubilant sycophant" of Bardolf. I chose to have the Library as the thing which connects them. My DM told me later she was going to bring back Üblich as a villain. But unfortunately before she got to it my group dissolved when folks moved out of state. But that would have been cool!

But these two beautiful losers live on... somewhere... out there in the vast multiverse. I hope that Üblich has found his destiny and is setting up great libraries in honor of Ioun across the Forgotton Realms. And I hope Bardolf actually got that book deal after all!

This trip was from August 20th - August 29th 2016.
The Sime family (Norwegian spelling Seim) is originally from Årdal in Sogn og Fjordane county, and more
specifically, the farming and fishing village of Seim. My great, great grandparents and their children left
Norway on a boat from Bergen called the Valkyrien in 1873 (read the horrific story of that journey at the
Norwegian Heritage site here: https://is.gd/5xYobg). My dad, and many members of my family, have
wanted to make this pilgrimage all of their lives. And after a short 3-day visit in 2015, I was determined to
get my dad there before the next year was up.
And thanks to the organizational brilliance and daredevil driving of Kirsten Baldock, we did just that.
Myself, my dad, Rose Sime and Kirsten successfully visited Seim (!), the very dock in Bergen where the
Valkyrien was launched (!), and we explored much of the fjord country & part of the Jotunheimen
Mountains of Norway in the process. As a bonus I also included just a few photos from my previous trip
(October 2015) too. Sadly, Facebook decided to move all my videos to the end of the set so those aren't
really in order but (shrugs) whatta ya gonna do?
This photoset, the research, and the writing behind it all took me 2 1/2 years to get finished. There's so
many odd tidbits of information about Norway, Norwegian folklore, local writers / artists / musicians /
bands, links to even more items of interest, and also my memories of our various adventures packed into
this set that I had to stop working on it several times just to recharge my creative batteries. My hope is at
least some of this will be helpful for other Sime family members who will want to travel to this part of the
world and visit where the Simes are originally from too. And maybe for the rest of you I can introduce you
to some cool bands, great aquavits, Norse Mythology, and just give you a small peek at what I'm up to
when I'm not running the register at my comic book store.
Truly the trip of a lifetime. Enjoy. 
Seim, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
On the waterfront at Seim, right where my ancestors put their boats in the water. This is where my
great, great grandparents, Ole T. Seim (age 32) and Sonnevi Seim (age 33), and their children first
embarked on their voyage to America in 1873 . 
Our trip to the Sime Homeland in Norway begins here...
12.5 thousand feet over the East Greenland Orogen mountain range. Norwegian Air's 787 Boeing
Dreamliner is powered by twin Rolls-Royce turbines.
I hope to visit Greenland someday too! 
Oslo Norway at Jernbanetorget square.
My parents pose with the famous bronze tiger at Oslo Central Station by artist Elena Engelsen in
Jernbanetorget square.
With death-defying tiger-tooth stunts performed by local Norwegian circus performer. Or future circus
performer. Whatever the case, we was excited to get in this photo!
Fun Fact: The Norwegian word for "circus" is "sirkus" (laugh)! 
Oslo Opera House.
The famous Oslo Opera House. Sitting at the end of the Oslofjord, the Opera House is open to the
public and the slanted roof is a very a popular place to catch the gorgeous Norwegian sunset. This
iceberg-inspired building was designed by the Snøhetta firm and constructed in 2007.
Pro Tip: You can find videos of the very famous men's room on YouTube. 
Oslo Opera House.
Inside the Oslo Opera House. The outside of the building is covered in granite and La Facciata, a white Italian
marble. The interior features this "wave wall" in oak and also 49 foot tall windows to give a panoramic view of
Oslo and the Oslofjord. 
Oslo Opera House. My dad likes these oak walls and the sound dampening properties of the design. 
Oslo Opera House.
The roof of the Oslo Opera House. This sign says no bicycles or skateboarding but we definitely saw
a couple locals riding their bikes on there. An outdoor concert on the roof had happened earlier and
was being broken down as we arrived. 
Norwegian Black Metal in Oslo! This is one of the first signs that greeted us on our way to our hotel,
It reads:
"Your New Style.
Your Old Car." 
And bizarrely even has a Scottish Fold cat down in the corner. This ad is everything! What a great,
weird, awesome black metal welcome to Norway!
Our hotel was across the street from Spektrum concert hall in a cool working class neighborhood.
The late-night Norwegian kebabs we had at nearby Dronningen's Kebab were beyond excellent!
Owner Haim Meir served us. Highly recommended! 
The Oslo Harbor.
I accidentally deleted the photo with the name of this vintage Italian sailboat, so I can't tell you much 
aside from that we walked by and my dad made a joke about sneaking on board while the guards
were looking the other way.
Watching the sun go down over Oslofjord at Akershus Fortress, Oslo. My dad is in total bliss.
Akershus Fortress is in just about every photo of Oslo and the harbor ever taken. This medieval
castle overlooking all of Olso Harbor was built sometime in the 1299 by King Haakon V. Despite
many attempts, the fortress has never successfully been besieged by a foreign enemy (although it
was surrendered during the Nazi occupation of Oslo). It is still used as a military base to this day as
well as housing Norway's Resistance Museum.
Seen here are Kirsten Baldock's hair, Rose Sime taking a picture of Akershus Castle Church, and my
dad just soaking it all up. Not pictured: Me leaning over the high precipice to get the shot. 
Akershus Fortress, Oslo Norway.
This picture I took on my *previous* trip to Norway in October 2015 of the Akershus Fortress. This
one is also at sundown but from out on the docks the fortress overlooks in Olso Harbor. Here you
can see Akershus Church from this other angle... and also that very high precipice I was leaning out
over to take the previous photo. 
Akershus Fortress Church, Oslo.
I should have taken more pictures of this immense fortress, this is just one building, and does not
convey the epic scope. It was very easy to get lost in the massive, walled grounds. Take a tour
here:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Ng4pyFqZyI
Akershus Fortress, Oslo.
Not knowing Norwegian, my trick for signs like this that I couldn't read was to snap a picture and
then try to run it through Google Translate once I got back to my hotel and internet access. It didn't
always work, but it usually did. Fun to try anyway. This sign designates the canon tower here at
Håkon fortress. 
Akershus Fortress, Oslo.
After finding it nearly impossible to find our way *out* of the Akershus Fortress, this open door to nowhere in
the distance looked promising. We ended up not using it until when we returned the next day. I was convinced
it was an exit from those endless stone fortress walls, but it, too, was not really the way out either. 
Akershus Fortress, Oslo.
One of the disturbing "Silent Howlers" statues that lurked all over Akershus Castle by artist Laura
Ford. This haunting outdoor exhibition of statues of crying kids ran from June 11th to September
30th 2016. I'm really glad we saw them.
I considered getting a picture with this one (Weeping Girl 2), but couldn't bring myself to disturb her.
See more of these statues here: http://www.visitoslo.com/en/product/?TLp=1130255
Oslo Harbor.
Gorgeous sunset over the Oslo harbor at Aker Brygge, there's an open air market here and also lots
of restaurants. When the weather is nice Norwegians are definitely outside and these Aker Brygge
restaurants have upwards of 2,500 chairs outdoors for them to sit and watch these gorgeous
Oslofjord sunsets.
This is right out the front door of SOLSIDEN Restaurant where we ate amazing seafood. We asked
our friendly waiter if he could help us pronounce the names of some of the small towns we would
soon be visiting... but our waiter was Swedish and he couldn't really help us with Norwegian
pronunciations either. 
Oslo Harbor.
The Mela Festivalen (an annual festival celebrating mela activities and religious gathering with
dance, theatre, fashion, food) was in full swing right out in front of the Oslo City Hall (aka Oslo
Rådhus, seen in the background of this photo) and the Nobel Peace Center, where the Peace Prize
is given out each year. These glowing light up elephants were everywhere. 

Myth (Sphinx) Statue at Folketeateret, Oslo, Norway.
This 10 foot tall statue of Kate Moss by artist Marc Quinn greets all who visit the Folketeateret Mall in
Oslo.
This photo is from my late October 2015 trip. I've included it in this set here because a 10-foot
Contortionist Kate Moss statue is really weird and also really hilarious. 
Oslo, Norway... the bad side of the river. 
And here you go metal fans, a flyer for the truest of the true Norwegian black metal bands, playing in
their home town of Oslo! Of course three of the famous founding members will not be playing this
show. Euronymous and Dead who are both dead, and Count Grishnackh is in prison for killing his
bandmate Euronymous and also the arson of three Norwegian Stave Churches (those churches are
really cool so I definitely can't condone that).
After my parents went to bed we headed off to the *amazing* Aku-Aku Tiki Bar in the Grünerløkka
district. This is definitely one of my most favorite tiki bars on Earth (second only to Smuggler's Cove),
serving up a variety of fantastic Norsk aquavit cocktails and great portraits of Thor Heyerdahl on the
wall. True tiki folks will know why I think all of that matters. Great staff too was more than happy to
make us off-menu rounds that we'd fallen in love with when we visited last year. What could be
better?!
I had wanted to grab one of these Mayhem posters for my traveller's book, but would have had to
risk my life to get it. If I'd seen a flyer for one of my favorite Scandinavian bands like Triptykon or The
3rd And The Mortal or Kjøtt I would have risked it. Still cool to see. 
Oslo, Norway... the bad side of the river.
Another Norwegian show poster for upcoming metal shows in Oslo. Alongside the Norwegian bands
here are bands from Germany, France, Japan, and even Oakland, California.
In Oslo we only saw posters like this in the Grünerløkka district. 

Black Star cocktail. Aku-Aku Tiki Bar, Oslo.
A David Bowie inspired cocktail at my second favorite tiki bar on Earth!
The Aku-Aku is in the Grünerløkka district of Oslo and serves up a fantastic variety of Norwegian
aquavit tiki cocktails as well as the traditional tiki bar Polynesian delights. This bar has such a great
tiki ambiance with an awesome staff and portraits of the great Thor Heyerdahl on the wall.
I must admit, despite my desire to have a David Bowie cocktail, I was a bit terrified to try this one.
One of the big cultural disconnects I have in Norway is salted black liquorice. The Norwegians *love*
them some salted black liquorice! But... despite my trepidation, I knew I had to try this. And my
bravery was well rewarded by the Aku-Aku Tiki Bartenders, because this drink was absolutely
delicious!
Another win for Aku-Aku Tiki Bar!
BLACK STAR COCKTAIL
Goslings Black Seal Rum
Lime Juice
Johan Bülow Fine Liquorice Powder
Johan Bülow Salty Licorice Syrup
www.akuaku.no
#IFindTikiBarsEverywhere

Torggata Botaniske menu. Oslo, Norway.
While we were in Oslo, Kirsten really wanted to check out this botanical cocktail lounge and
herbarium. They use only herbs that they have grown in-house from seeds. It was a cool theme. We
were there for maybe 10 minutes tops. Kirsten had a Miss Basil and I had a Carrots Do Have Souls.
Torggata Botaniske
Oslo, Norway. First morning breakfast. 
Let's talk Norwegian Brown Cheese for a minute, shall we?! The various varieties of this Norwegian
goat cheese called Brunost, including Gjetost and Gudbrandsdalsost, are completely jaw-dropping.
The caramel-y brown color of the cheese is a result of a process in which the whey, cream and milk
are slowly heated, causing an *actual* caramelization of the milk's sugars... and results in a rich,
dense. mouth-melting experience exploding in a butterscotch / caramel flavor which is AMAZING.
I ate as many of these Brunost varieties as I could on this trip. Because these cheeses are made
with whey, which is a by-product of the cheese making process, brunost is not *technically* cheese.
Well I do not care for your technicalities! Brunost is some of the most delicious "cheeses" I have ever
had the pleasure to consume. If I didn't have such good manners I would gladly bite your hand to get
the last paper-thin slice of this Norwegian gift from the Gods.
The other day I was having a discussion about the wonderfulness that is Norwegian Brown Cheese
withKyle Shutt, lead guitar player of The Sword, who also knows the glory of the Brunost. As his eyes
lit up and he began his own rant about the greatness that is this cheese, I had one of those moments
where I thought "(sigh) I wish I had more friends that I could talk about Brunost with!" (laugh) That is
how great this cheese is!
Look upon this photo and revel in one of the true glories of Norway! 
On the Bygdøyfergene. Oslo, Norway.
Day two was a very museum-centric day, and also our first boat ride of the trip. As boats are how our
Sime ancestors got around Norway for centuries there's just something special about being in the
homeland and on the water. That Viking blood just loves being on a boat.
The Bygdøyfergene is a ferry to the Bygdøy peninsula where many of Oslo's best museums are.
Including the Fram Museum, the Norwegian Maritime Museum, Thor Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki Museum,
the Norwegian Museum of Cultural History at Bygdøy and the glorious Viking Ship Museum. We did
'em all! And also the Restistance Museum back at the Akershus Fortress that day too. And this ferry
ride is where it all started.
In a very rare occurrence, I actually took a selfie.
The Fram Museum.
My dad gets behind the helm of one of the most famous boats in history, The Fram.
The Fram is a massive 402 ton wooden boat, 128 feet long by 34 feet wide, driven by a huge 220
horsepower steam engine and sails on three masts. The ship also has a windmill that runs a 
generator to power Nikola Tesla electric arc lamps.
Upon this massive ship the 1893 expedition to the North Pole was launched (85° 57' N) and spent
three entire years trapped in the ice. And the Fram was *also* the first expedition to reach the South
Pole in 1912 (78° 41' S). All this through crushing ice and harsh weathers that decimated everything
that came before it. Very powerful to actually stand on the deck of this truly historic Norwegian ship.
This is touted as the "best museum in Norway" and it's hard to argue with that. This giant 402 ton
ship greets you at the door and you can actually go on desk and then down into three floors of the
ship's lower decks. The only museum I've been to anywhere that rivals this for sheer jawdroppingness is the Viking Ship Museum nearby.
Watch this BBC documentary on the Fram:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OeEm5256pWQ
And a tour of the Fram museum:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M38y3sukvmU

Kon-Tiki Museum. Oslo, Norway.
Thor Heyerdahl's famous balsa wood raft that did the impossible and sailed from South America to
the Polynesian islands in 1947. This tiny raft's 101 day voyage, with a crew of six, sailed 4,948 miles.
It was this journey that kicked off the worldwide obsession with "tiki culture" in the 1950s.
Fun Fact: Thor Heyerdahl had no sailing experience and couldn't even swim. #badass
Watch this documentary: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FsDNlD7pGa4
Viking Ship Museum @ Bygdøy. Oslo, Norway. 
We landed at the incredible Viking Ship Museum just as 10 tour busses arrived (!) so we did not spend much
time there. This is a photo from my previous visit here (October 2015) when the museum was almost
completely empty.
Upon entering the first thing you see is this, the Oseberg Ship, the greatest preserved Viking artifact ever,
thought to be built around 800 AD. It was discovered in 1904 in a now-famous Viking burial site on the
Oslofjord.
Just being in the presence of this artifact of Norwegian history is stunning. Despite the crowds on this
particular visit, I'm glad my parents got to see it. This museum is absolutely "all killer, no filler" and highly
recommended..
 
Viking Ship Museum @ Bygdøy. Oslo, Norway.
Detail of carvings on Oseberg ship, the single greatest preserved Viking artifact ever, at the Viking
Ship Museum. Thought to be built around 800 AD, this ship is actually rapidly deteriorating due to
liquification (a result of the best preservation technology available when it was discovered back in
1904) and unless they are able to find some solution is unlikely to even exist in another 100 years.
Read more about the latest efforts to save these wooden ships here: http://sciencenordic.com/shellfishand-plastic-can-save-viking-ships
I'm thankful to have seen this monumental artifact of my people's history when it still looked this
perfect. This is a photo from my previous visit (October 2015). 

Gol Stave Church at Bygdøy.
This is probably the most well-visited Stave Church in all of Norway. Built in 1212 in Gol, Norway and
moved here to Oslo in 1884 by King Oscar II. I was blown away that we were able to actually go
inside this church, as I was not able to do so the last time I visited in 2015.
Although we didn't plan to visit the others, this is only the first of *many* Norwegian Stave Churches
we will see on our journey. Watch for several more of these famous churches later in this photoset.
The Gol Stavekirke is part of the open air Norwegian Museum of Cultural History at Bygdøy. 

Gol Stave Church at Bygdøy.
Built in 1212 in Gol and moved to Oslo in 1884. This is probably the most visited Stave Church on
the entire planet. Although this is the actual original church which had been moved here in 1884, a
replica was built in Gol, Norway sometime in the 1980s. And there are also replicas of this exact
church at the Scandinavian Heritage Park in Minot, North Dakota and also at Epcot Center in Walt
Disney World in Florida.
The Gol Stavekirke is part of the open air Norwegian Museum of Cultural History at Bygdøy. 

Gol Stave Church at Bygdøy.
These famous wooden churches were built at the end of the Viking reign, as missionaries were
christianizing Norway, This particular church is from 1212.
Preserved with a dark red tar these intricate wooden churches tend to look very dark, or even black,
against the daytime sky. It's not easy getting photos that show off the details. This over-exposed
photo does a nice job showing off the craftsmanship. 

Gol Stave Church at Bygdøy.
I snuck a little photo of Rose Sime taking a photo ofKirsten Baldock at the doorway to this
Stavekirke.
The Gol Stave Church is part of the open air Norwegian Museum of Cultural History at Bygdøy. 

Gol Stave Church at Bygdøy.
Great designs on this Stavekirke door.
Gol Stave Church is part of the open air Norwegian Museum of Cultural History at Bygdøy. 

Inside the Gol Stave Church at Bygdøy.
The term “stave church” refers to the round pillars, staves, that support the roof. I don't have great
interior photos of this one but you can watch a walk-through here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NaaiOEvyMzM
Gol Stave Church is part of the open air Norwegian Museum of Cultural History at Bygdøy. 

Gol Stave Church at Bygdøy.
This photo was from my previous trip to Norway in late October 2015, but it's so cool I had to include
it in this set. If I ever write a Norwegian Folk Metal album (maybe inspired by "Gullslottet Som Hang i
Luften" - an epic Norwegian folk tale that translates to "The Golden Palace That Hung in the Air")
this will be the back cover.
Norsk Folkemuseum @ Bygdøy. Oslo, Norway.
The Setesdal Farm at Bygdøy consists of many ancient buildings like these two. On the left is
Brottveit Stabbur (storehouse) originally built around 1650 AD and moved here in 1910. On the right
is the Åmlid Farmhouse, also built sometime around 1650 AD and moved here in 1898.
There is a whole town of ancient Norwegian houses, barn and storehouses here. We hid out from
the rain in one of these barns when the clouds opened up on us. This photo is from my (sunnier) visit
here in 2015.
This is part of the open air Norwegian Museum of Cultural History / Norsk Folkemuseum at Bygdøy. 

Søndre Stabbur at Norsk Folkemuseum. Bygdøy. Oslo, Norway.
This stabbur (storehouse) from Søndre is where food and grain was stored. After being moved to
Bygdøy as part of King Oscar II’s Collection, the storehouse was used to exhibit objects from the
royal collection. Windows were added in the roof to provide light for the displays.
Pretty gorgeous for a storage bin!
This is part of the open air Norwegian Museum of Cultural History / Norsk Folkemuseum at Bygdøy.
Street Lions. Oslo, Norway.
Kirsten poses with this great lion statue, part of the "Mini Bottle Gallery" at Kikegata 10. One of my
favorite things about Oslo is all of the great statues on random streets and on the sides and roofs of
buildings. A night many of these statues, and so much of the city's gorgeous architecture, are all
amazingly illuminated. The city has a truly incredible gothic look that makes you really understand
this is where so much of the world's best metal albums are created.
Kirsten is a Leo, of course! 
More about the "Mini Bottle Gallery" at Kikegata
10:http://www.waymarking.com/waymarks/WMFD5M_Mini_Bottle_Gallery_Lions__Oslo_Norway

Architecture. Oslo, Norway.
Just a random shot of a random building in Oslo. At night it seems like every single one of these
statues, gargoyles and architecture are all amazingly illuminated. Imagine how great this guy must
look with dramatic under lighting!
Is Oslo the best underlit city in the world? Maybe!
Innsjøkreps Norwegian Disco Socks!
"Choose the right sock for the right disco dance." 
Norway is the largest producer of fresh crayfish (feel free to call them crawfish, crawdaddies or
mudbugs, if you prefer) in all of Europe. And eating these little guys is a true Scandinavian tradition!
Innsjøkreps (lake crayfish) are the freshwater variety, Sjøkreps (sea crayfish) are also known as
Norwegian Lobster (or Langoustine) is a close relative of the common lobster but is significantly
smaller and slimmer with long narrow claws. Unlike its larger relative the Sjøkreps live on the soft
bottom of clay and sand in the Skagerrak and Kattegat (the ancient names for the Norwegian Sea
and Jutland Sea), usually at 30-40 meters depth.
Oh sure - the critters on these socks could also very well be shrimps (reke or reker in Norwegian).
And I like those too... but not like I like crawdaddies, so that would be a bit less exciting. And I
wouldn't have had such a great excuse to write about Norwegian Crawdaddies, would I?!
Whatever the case, I'll leave you to decide the level of excitement you, personally, should approach
these Norwegian Disco Socks with. Me? I'm pretty excited.
Sadly since I started this photoset Moods of Norway has closed. So you won't be able to get a pair of
Norwegian Disco Socks of your own. Sorry. 

Moods of Norway. Oslo, Norway.
Posing with the world famous Moods of Norway pink tractor that was in all of their early promotions &
high fashion photoshoots (https://thornews.com/2012/04/18/moods-of-norway-happy-clothes-for-happypeople). Just seeing this tractor in real life was a total geek-out moment!
I am thrilled to be the owner of a couple of amazing suits from this company. The pride of my entire
closet! Hopefully someday I will be able to get my hands on one of their iconic pink suits.
Engebret Cafe. Oslo, Norway.
Engebret Cafe is Oslo's oldest restaurant. It opened in 1857 and still serves excellent traditional
Scandinavian cuisine. The Christmas-time lutefisk feasts here are the stuff of legend. We definitely
had to go here!
Also... cloudberries and Ice-cream for dessert! 
Statue at Engebret Cafe. Oslo, Norway.
Kirsten shows off her best mopey teenager slump alongside this statue in the square right outside of
Engebret Cafe.
Apparently this statue is entitled En Ung Moderne Jente which translates to "A Young Modern Girl". 
Statue at Engebret Cafe. Oslo, Norway.
Rose shows off her best mopey teenager slump alongside this statue in the square right outside of
Engebret Cafe.
Apparently this statue is entitled En Ung Moderne Jente which translates to "A Young Modern Girl". 

Himkok Storgata Destilleri. Oslo, Norway.
Ah, the HIMKOK! I love this bar so much. Fantastic staff and jaw-dropping cocktails. On my first trip
to Norway I managed to come here just after they opened to the public and I was excited to go back
and have their house-distilled aquavit once again!
Getting to return to Aku-Aku Tiki Bar and Himkok Storgata Destilleri were true highlights of my return
to Oslo on this trip. 

Himkok Storgata Destilleri. Oslo, Norway.
Cocktails from HIMKOK, the famous Fjellbekk-san and also a Barberer Sørensen in Oslo, Norway.
Himkok distills their own aquavit, gin and vodka on site.
Here's two of their great cocktails:
FJELLBEKK-SAN
House-made Himkok aquavit
Yuzu Sake
Spruce Syrup
Elderflower Tonic
BARBERER SØRENSEN
House-made Himcok Gin
Cocchi Americano
Lemon Juice
Strawberry & Cardamom Shrub
Peychard's Bitters 

Himkok Storgata Destilleri. Oslo, Norway.
I lost my notes so don't remember what this one was, and the menu at HIMKOK is a rarely
photographed mystery the world over! And even if you *had* the recipe, recreating it would still fall
completely flat as Himkok distills all of their own aquavits, gins and vodkas in house.
Best bar on Earth? Without question in my top 5! 

Himkok Storgata Destilleri. Oslo, Norway.
HIMKOK Destilleri distills their own aquavit, gin and vodka on site. Our bartender loved us so much
he gave us this fantastic aquavit tasting of seasonal creations & new experimentations. They were
phenomenal and this quiet little moment was the perfect end to an over-stuffed day of museum-ing.
Sadly, I lost my traveller's book with all my tasting notes (sigh), but they are, from left to right:
Himkok Sommeraquavit
Himkok Sloe Aquavit
Himkok Bitters Aquavit
Just outside Ål in Hallingdal, Norway.
Looking out the train window. Nearby is Vassfaret, the legendary "Kingdom of Bears." The terrifying
1960s childrens' book about a killer bear, FORTELLINGEN OM SLAGBJØNNEN RUGG by Mikkjel
Fønhus and Nils Johnson, takes place here. 
Switchback roads near Myrkdalen Fjellandsby, Norway.
At Voss we picked up our rental car and headed out on a 3 and 1/2 hour drive to Skjolden on the
narrow mountainous roads. Driving in Norway consists of lots of hairpin switchbacks up and down
the steep slopes. No photos do justice to the magnitude of the sheer grades here. It is equally
impossible not to utter a "wow" when you see where you will soon be driving.
As you can probably guess, with extreme grades and no shortage of snow in the winter, this part of
the country is one of the most famous places for people who like extreme deep-powder downhill
skiing. Nearby is Myrkdalen, The Dark Valley, where the International Ski Instructors Association do
their annual speed tests on the slopes, zipping past frozen waterfalls. More snow falls in Myrkdalen
than almost anywhere else in Europe.
If you want to check out the nearby winter ski conditions, watch this
video: https://youtu.be/Iq9oPDZ_S8c

Looking Down near Myrkdalen Fjellandsby, Norway.
Far, far below us is the road from the last photo we've been driving on and the teeny tiny farm houses far, far
below. Soon we will be coming up on the town of Vik, Norway which sits at the bottom of one of these huge
mountainsides.
Fun Fact: The old Norse language word for Viking is "víkingr" which means a "man from Vík." While there is
some historical debate about potential different townships called Vik over the centuries, the Vik we are about
to go to is the perfect place to launch Viking warships from. 

Hopperstad Stavkyrkje in Vik, Norway.
This historic church stands out in the Vik valley sky with its dark, almost blackened facade. This is
the second Stave Church we visited and this one is much older and far less frequently seen by
visitors than the Gol Stave Church in Oslo.
Hopperstad was built around 1130 AD and this gorgeous wooden church (together with Urnes,
which we will be visiting later in this photoset) is the oldest stave church in existence.
Despite being hard to photograph such a black church in bright daylight, there wasn't a soul at the
church when we came to visit, so I was able to get some pretty amazing pictures. 

Hopperstad Stavkyrkje in Vik, Norway.
Built around 1130 AD, Hopperstad is the oldest stave church in existence (together with Urnes,
which we will be visiting later in this photoset).
The sky looked like a painting, truly phenomenal. 

Hopperstad Stavkyrkje in Vik, Norway.
Hopperstad (1130 AD) and Urnes (1132 AD, with parts dating back to date back to 1070 AD) are the
two oldest stave churches in existence.
This one is my favorite. 

Off the ferry at Hella, Norway.
After Vik, we took the Hella-Vangsnes Ferry (Ferje) to the North side of Sognefjorden on the
Sognefjellsvegen road, which was still two entire lanes at this point. But that will soon change!
Near this photo we will pass by the 120 meters tall Kvinnafossen waterfall right after this. "Kvinne" is
Norwegian word for "lady" and the Kvinnafossen is said to be named so because the falls is believed
to make a unique sound reminiscent of a woman either screaming in distress or screaming in a state
of ecstasy. I wish I'd known when we were there, I would have rolled down the window, as it was I
just had time to let out a "WHOA!" as we drove by.
Check out this great drone footage of the Kvinnafossen waterfall to see some scale of the stuff we're
driving through.
https://youtu.be/9tfVb2nJCb0
Skjolden, Norway.
This is where we will spend the next three days! Our hotel is right in the middle of that mesopotamia
between the Mørkridselvi river and the Eidselvi river. And the hike we do to Fuglesteg can be seen
as a flat light green patch about half way up the right hand mountain. The background is the 
Jotunheimen Mountains, the fabled Land of the Giants.
This photo was part of a huge display in the Norwegian Glacier Museum at Jostedalsbreen. Yes the
water is actually that amazingly naturally colored! It is the result of glacial meltwater or "glacial milk."
These brilliantly blue glacial waters get their color from what's known as "rock flour", sediment from
rocks grinding together underneath the glacier. The fine powder is then suspended in the water and
absorbs and scatters varying colors of sunlight, giving these glacial rivers and lakes a milky
turquoise appearance.
Notice the mixing of the unique colors of the rivers right outside our hotel's front window, as these
rivers are from two different regions that have different minerals in bedrock. 
The view at Skjolden, Norway.
The idyllic fjord town of Skjolden, at the furthest end of the longest fjord in all of Norway, is where we
will spend the next three days. This is the view up the Lusterfjorden (the inner part of Sognefjorden)
from the waterfront which we looked directly out at from our hotel window.
The Sognefjellsvegen road we drove to Skjolden (on the right hand shoreline here) narrows down to
white-knuckle width before too long and is filled with dozens of blind S-curves. The hotel we stayed
at is the amazing Skjolden Hotel Luster.
There wasn't much city stuff to do in Skjolden, which was the whole point of staying there, but the
hospitality and food at our incredible hotel was truly amazing.
Without a doubt this is my favorite hotel on Earth. Highest recommendation, obviously!
See more: https://www.facebook.com/skjoldenhotel

Skjolden Hotel Luster in Skjolden, Norway.
This is my hotel room view up the Sognefjorden looking out from our hotel window. Skjolden Hotel
Luster is waterside at the end of the Sognefjorden, where the Norwegian sea ends and the jawdropping mountains begin. The valleys of Mørkridsdal and Fortunsdal meet at Skjolden, just west of
the Hurrungane Mountains. There were probably 8 waterfalls that could be seen from this view while
we were there.
Man was it hard to leave Skjolden at the end of those three days!
On the hike to Fuglesteg Farm, Fortun, Norway.
My folks and Kirsten checking out the wildflowers at the beginning of our Fuglesteg Farm hike which
brought us a full 2,066 feet above sea level at the summit (that's as high as the second tallest
building on Earth).
The Fuglesteg Luster farm overlooks the village of Fortun, Norway and the Lustrafjorden, just on the
edge of the Jotunheimen Mountains. It was built in 1830 by Norwegian farmer & madman Sylfest
Ormeli, who carried stones for 5 years up this steep hill to build his dream farm. 
Fuglesteg pass, Jotunheim Mountains.
Far below us is the village of Fortun in the foreground and you can just see a bit of Skjolden in the
distance. This is from the opposite direction from that overhead photo from earlier in the set.
The road seen here is the Sognefjellsvegen, which becomes the highest elevation mountain pass
road in all of Northern Europe when it gets up into the Jotunheim Mountains. 

On the hike to Fuglesteg Farm, Fortun, Norway.
Hiking to Fuglesteg Farm at 2,066 feet above sea level, only part way up the legendary Jotunheim
Mountains, where mythology is born and giants dwell.
Here's a fantastic photoset of Norwegian wildflowers, we saw a bunch of
these! http://bentehaarstad.photoshelter.com/gallery/Flora-Wild-flowers-inNorway/G0000PPXJGI.huWk/C0000umnCRBbQuBI
Somewhere up Fuglesteg Pass, Jotunheim Mountains.
Below us is Fortun, Norway. There were lots of little white churches of this style all over fjord country.
This one, the Fortun Church, was built in 1879 and replaced the village's old stave church that was
built sometime around 1160. There will be another picture of this church in a bit so you can see how
high into the stratosphere this hike was taking us.
The Hurrungane mountains lie just to the south of the village. 
Meeting a herd of sheep on Fuglesteg pass, high above Fortun, Norway.
Do you want to hang out and get to know a bunch of sheep in Norway? Of course you do! Check out
the biographies and the #sheepwithaview map here:
https://www.visitnorway.com/sheepwithaview/
And follow Norwegian sheep on Instagram here:
https://www.instagram.com/sheepwithaview

Fuglesteg pass, high above Fortun, Norway.
We took a small breather here and hung out with the sheep. I found a high perch to check out the
view. I just can't help it, I climb all over everything.
Fuglesteg pass, on the edge of the Jotunheim Mountains.
My folks take a short break on this little picnic bench (just off the path from the sheep barn in the
nearby photo) to consult the book we got my dad for Father's Day this year, MOUNTAIN FLOWERS
OF SCANDINAVIA by Olav Gjærevoll (1975).
We're about half way up the mountain at this point, somewhere around 1,000 feet above the village
of Fortun, Norway. 
Fuglesteg pass, on the edge of the Jotunheim Mountains.
Stopping for a rest somewhere along our 2,066 foot hike to the Fuglesteg mountain farm. Far, far
below us is the town of Skjolden, which can be seen here in the background.
My dad might be 84 years old but I'm reasonably certain he can still out-hike your dad. 
Fuglesteg Farm, Jotunheim Mountains.
This tiny shack greets you at the summit of Fuglesteg pass, 2,066 feet above Fortun, Norway. It's
quite the hike to get here, but totally worth it. You'll see this cabin and it's glorious reindeer horns
over the door in an upcoming photo from the opposite direction. 
Fuglesteg mountain farm in the Jotunheimen Mountains ("the land of the giants").
At the top of our 2,066 foot hike was the Fuglesteg Luster farm was built in 1830 by Sylfest Ormeli.
The legend is that for five years Sylfest carried these stones up the hill to build his dream secret
mountaintop farm... a secret even to his wife!
Less hearty folks than Ormeli (and also *my* family!) take a helicopter to get there.
BAH!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ALz2XXTQ_iI
Fuglesteg mountain farm, high above the town of Fortun, Norway.
Fuglesteg farm is in the innermost part of the Lustrafjorden, just on the edge of the Jotunheimen
Mountains, the fabled "Land of the Giants". This rock table is one of hundreds of rocks carried to this
summit by totally badass Norwegian madman Sylfest Ormeli in 1830. (see previous photo for more
about Sylfest Ormeli) 
Fuglesteg Farm, Jotunheim Mountains.
There are waterfalls *everywhere* in Norway. This one is the Drivandefossen, meaning "driven falls" 

Fuglesteg mountain farm, Jotunheimen Mountains.
At the top of our hike from sea level to 2,066 feet on Fuglesteg pass, this summit is as high as the
second tallest building on Earth.
Horns above the door are a traditional feature of wilderness cabins the world over, and here in
Norway that is no exception. This set of reindeer horns is particularly impressive.
Suit by Falcone, Italy. Yes, I really do hike in a suit.
Fuglesteg farm, Jotunheimen Mountains.
Kirsten and Rose sign us in to the hike logbook at Fuglesteg at the 630 meter sign (2066.93 feet
above sea level). If you guys come here you can sign in too.
In the background here is Drivandefossen waterfall coming over the ridge of the mountains. To get
an idea of the actual scale of this "trickle" of water, check out this photo of where the spectacular
Drivandefossen meets the roadway 2,066 feet below us. https://www.instagram.com/p/9qwd86KwlM/
Fuglesteg fjell, Jotunheimen Mountains.
Njörðr, the Norse god of the winds and sea, blew a cloud to envelop Kirsten in the grim cloud
created from blithe gods' brains. On Fuglesteg fjell at 2,066 feet.
"From Ymir’s flesh the earth was created,
And from his blood the sea,
Mountains from bone,
Trees from hair,
And from his skull the sky.
And from his eyebrows the blithe gods made
Midgard, home of the sons of men
And from his brains
They sculpted the grim clouds." - Grímnismál Poetic Edda 
Fuglesteg pass, Jotunheimen Mountains.
Escaping the cloud on our 2,066 foot descent from Fuglesteg mountain farm. Far, far below you can
see the Lusterfjorden and the fjord town of Skjolden way off in the distance. 
Pondus + Kvikk Lunsj + Ringi Rabarbra
For the first time in my entire life MY DAD BOUGHT ME A COMIC BOOK! #magicalNorway
PONDUS is a famous comic by Norwegian cartoonist Frode Øverli. That slogan on the top, Ikke
Bare Bare På Baren, translates roughly on Google Translate to "Not just only on the bar!"
RINGI RABARBRA is the *best* Norwegian rhubarb soda, pressed fresh in Slependen, Norway.
Despite keeping my eyes peeled everywhere we went on two different trips to Norway, I still know of
only a few places to get this delightful beverage. Of course here in Fortun, Norway and also
Stockfleths in Oslo:http://nordiccoffeeculture.com/stockfleths-oslo/
KVIKK LUNSJ is a famed Norwegian candy bar, similar to an American Kit-Kat bar. Very similar! But
any fan will happily extoll the superiority and the virtues of the Kvikk Lunsj!
Here is an incredible, awesomely geek-y review of the Kvikk Lunsj vs the Kit-Kat from Serious
Eats:http://sweets.seriouseats.com/2011/03/snapshots-from-norway-kvikk-lunsj-more-than-a-norwegian-kitkat-bar-taste-test.html
YES, THIS REALLY HAPPENED.
Guys, this is a picture of my dad buying me a comic for the first time in my entire life.
I'm still kind of freaking out about it. 
Skjolden, Norway. End of Day 4.
When the clouds roll into Lustrafjorden at the end of the day, you know mythological Niflheim (the
land of mist) is real.
These jaw-dropping views are right outside my hotel window at Skjolden Hotel Luster. Just
gorgeous.
Tomorrow we will drive the southern shore of the Lusterfjord (left hand side here) along the
Romantiske Vegen, the "romantic road", to Urnes stave church built around 1132 AD.
Kirsten saw a Viking Ghost Ship (or perhaps some strange anomaly of mist) right off shore beyond
this pier one of our nights here. I hope you get to see see Viking Ghost Ships when you come here
too. 

Aquavit Tasting and Troll Talking (part one)
What better time to share folk legends of Scandinavian monsters than after a long, hard hike in
these giants' homelands... with a glass of Norwegian aquavit in hand?
Hellstrøm Aquavit is made by famed Chef Eyvind Hellstrøm, who will be arriving to stay in Skjolden a
couple days after we leave. Our hotel owners are close friends & very excited for us to try his
aquavit. Hellstrøm's aquavit lives up to his motto "Enkelt og Perfekt" (simple and perfect).
Now that you have your aquavit in hand, let's talk of Trolls. Children the world over know and fear
the human-flesh-hungry Scandinavian trolls.
The Jötnar (singular: Jötunn) of myth are ugly, mean-spirited giants, often with tusks or cyclopic
eyes. Cruel and evil by disposition, and also very fond of the taste of human flesh, the Jötnar
typically live in hidden mountain caves and hunt after sunset. They are also known to throw giant
stones at people and destroy human villages located in the mountains for fun. A female Jötunn is
called Gygjar, and are considered just as ill-tempered and deadly as their male counterparts.
According to myth the Jötnar turn to stone when exposed to sunlight. 

Aquavit Tasting and Troll Talking (part two)
Much like the Jötnar aren't the only kind of Trolls in Norway, neither is Hellstrøm the only aquavit!
Ægir Yggdrasil Akevitt is a small-batch aquavit from Flåm. It is named after the mythic Yggdrasil
World Tree that connects the nine worlds of the Norse cosmology (Asgard, Midgard, Jotunheim,
Alfheim, Vanaheim, Niflheim, Muspelheim, Svartalfheim and Hel).
Huldrefolk are a cave-dwelling human-sized species of Norwegian Troll, known more for their
cunning and trickery than their Jötnar counterparts. Females are known as Huldras, blonde and
beautiful and often naked, and easily identifiable from the typical gorgeous Norwegian humans you
may encounter in the woods by their long tails. Their seductive hypnotic song entrances the minds of
those who hear it, and Huldras are known to keep mesmerized humans as their slaves, mates, or
pets for many, many years in their caves. These evil creatures are famous for their love of playing
with the minds of hapless victims.
And be warned... it is said that some Huldras hide their tails under clothing to trick their prey.
The males of the species, known as Huldrekall, are rarely seen but are said to be just as evil as their
female counterparts. Sometimes they are described as beautiful but are just as often said to be
hideous, with grotesquely long noses. 

Siri Dalehaug's Family Tree
Over aquavit tastings the *fantastic* owner & manager of our *amazing* hotel, Siri Dalehaug, asked
us if we had family that lived nearby. As soon as I said my last name was Sime (the original
Norwegian spelling is Seim), her eyes lit up, "Seim? Did you say Seim?!"
Framed on a nearby wall is her family tree... and it was full of Seims! Imagine our surprise at that!
Siri is truly a wonderful hostess, a font of local information, and she definitely helped to make our
time in Skjolden an incredible trip I will never forget. I seriously cannot recommend visiting her and
staying at the hotel more. I've said it before but I'll say it again... this is my favorite hotel on the entire
planet.www.skjoldenhotel.no
While it turns out her family is from a *different* town of Seim (near Bergen, Norway - the one my
grandparents saw a sign for on their trip to Norway in the 1980s(?)), so it is unlikely our family trees
actually intersect much. But it was still amazing to get to connect with another member of the
extended Seim Family while we were in Norway. And particularly one who operates my favorite hotel
on the entire planet! 
Eidselvi River at sunrise in Skjolden, Norway.
Here the milky blue Eide River meets the Lusterfjord. The iPhone just can't capture the amazing
color of this river.
Philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, considered by many to be the greatest philosopher of the 20th
century, stayed in Skjolden in 1913-1914 while writing LOGIK and his philosophical thesis
TRACTATUS LOGICO-PHILOSOPHICUS (1921). This building is (I believe) Drægni Hallvard's
jam/juice factory that Wittgenstein later worked at in 1921, when he had given away all of his
money.
Here's a documentary film on finding the tiny little hut Wittgenstein lived in while in
Skjolden:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=olLIUUL3Bek&feature=youtu.be
Eidselvi River in Skjolden, Norway.
No matter how amateurish of a photographer you are, or how lame your equipment might be, it is
impossible to take a photo in the quiet, idyllic fjordtown of Skjolden that doesn't make you look like a
professional postcard photographer. 
However, the water in the Eide River is actually more of a teal--blue milk color than the blue-purple it
looks in this photo. As stunning as this shot is, my phone camera just can't capture the real beauty.
Sunrise in Skjolden, Norway.
Another view of the gorgeous sky and clouds of the Lusterfjord from the Skjolden Brygghuset Warf
House.
Sognefjord is the largest fjord in Norway and also the third largest in the world. Extending inland for
127 miles from Sygnefest to its easternmost point at Skjolden. Here, called the Lusterfjord, it is only
3 miles wide across, over 4,291 feet deep, with steep rock mountains rising dramatically to heights
of over 5,500 feet. 
Sunrise in Skjolden, Norway.
More views of the fjord town of Skjolden (61.4905° N, 7.6006° E) dramatically enveloped in fluffy
clouds that really make you believe in Norse Mythology.
See a great done video filmed from up on this hill, flying down towards us,
here:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qKID9KaXn08
Obscured by clouds, Skjolden Norway.
As the morning sun disappears behind a veil of white we look to the left hand side (Southern) of the
Lusterfjord. We will soon get a light rain to go with these clouds. In this photo you can see the
Skjolden Brygghuset Warf where cruise ships dock, a perfect alternative to visiting Skjolden for
those who don't want to drive.
Speaking of driving, the shoreline here has a road named the Romantiske Vegen, the "romantic
road", named because it is extremely narrow even by Norwegian standards(!). This slim and winding
road through small, idyllic hamlets only *barely* fits two cars at the widest points and is no more than
a single car's width for much of the journey. We will soon be driving the Romantiske Vegen to get to
the Urnes stave church. 

Kroken Frukt og Bær Rhubarb Soda.
The farm where Kroken Frukt og Bær organic juices and jams are made in on the Romantiske
Vegen, the "romantic road". Locally-picked juices and jams and sodas made from Rhubarb,
Gooseberries, Raspberries, Blueberries, and Apples. This un-carbonated Rabarbrasafi is the best of
all the Rhubarb sodas we tried. Yum, yum, yum.
http://www.haukadal.no/
Urnes Stave Church, Norway.
The oldest stave church in existence, dating back to 1132 AD according to dendrochronologists,
Urnes is also the most intricately carved and decorated.
Parts of the church are medieval carvings that date back even further, the oldest of which are two
door panels (seen on the outside here) from around 1070 AD. These carvings are (perhaps)
mythological Viking pagan carvings depicting entwined dragon-snake creatures, foliage and the end
of the world.
Of the 1,300 medieval stave churches that are known to have existed in Norway only 28 still remain. 
More info on Urnes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urnes_Stave_Church

Urnes Stave Church, Norway.
We arrived at Urnes just as it was being closed to outside visitors due to the presence of a historical
research group. Fortunately they were very accommodating and gave us a tour of the church for a
few short minutes. The inside is incredibly detailed (as you'll get to see in an upcoming video I took).
Urnes is the oldest stave church on Earth, dating back to 1132 AD according to dendrochronologists
(dendrochronology is the scientific study of dating trees, like carbon-dating for wood).
More info on Urnes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urnes_Stave_Church
Urnes Stave Church, Norway.
Here's a view of Urnes overlooking the Lusterfjord, with mystical-looking clouds ghosting along the
North bank near Solvorn, Norway across the fjord from us.
Urnes is the oldest stave church on Earth, dating back to 1132 AD according to dendrochronologists.
As you can see from this photoset we definitely visited a number of these gorgeous ancient
churches. For those who might be interested, no, I did not go to the Fantoft Stave Church in Bergen
which appears destroyed on the Burzum album "Aske." 
More info on Urnes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urnes_Stave_Church
Urnes Stave Church, Norway.
Whether the carvings on this church represent Níðhöggr eating the roots of Yggdrasil and bringing
about the end of the world according to the Norse legend of Ragnarök... or they are of the heroic
lion-symbol of Christ fighting the evil snake of Satan... the Urnes Stavkirke is a stunning masterpiece
of craftsmanship, a historical icon to spirituality, and a true ancient artifact of Norway. Also it's really,
great to have gotten to visit this piece of my people's cultural history.
Also, check out those clouds!
More info on Urnes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urnes_Stave_Church
Urnes Stave Church, Norway.
Smile Rose, you've just visited the oldest stave church in Norway!
More info on Urnes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urnes_Stave_Church
Skjolden Hotel Luster, Norway.
Back at our hotel in Skjolden. With the Jotunheimen Mountains as a backdrop, this is a fjordside
view of the awesome Skjolden Hotel Luster. My room is that third window from the right, looking right
out on the Lusterfjord.
Their website says it all "Like waking up to a painting when you look out the window in the morning.
Mountains reflected in the shiny bay. A perfect experience of silence and tranquility. No wonder
many a guest does not want to leave here!"
www.skjoldenhotel.no
Eidselvi River in Skjolden, Norway.
Man, Norway is just incredibly, incredibly beautiful. 
Norskémon Hunting, Skjolden, Norway.
It's time for some PokéHunting! Yes, believe it or not there are even PokéStops In Skjolden. Here
Kirsten collects some PokéBalls and hopes to spot an oh-so-rare European-only Mr. Mime (we did
not see one). As you can expect there was not much Pokémon Go played by us in this part of the
world, as much of our Norway trip had very limited cellular coverage and also we only turned on the
International Data Roaming on rare occasions.
PROTIP: Buy a small International Data Roaming package before you go outside of your country
and save it mostly for mapping and driving directions. When you do use it - Turn it on, take
screenshots of all the directions/maps/etc, and turn it off. Those screenshots on your phone make
for great travel souvenirs too.
And if you catch some Pokémon in a far-off land like Norway your Pokémon Go app will tell you
where you caught those critters. I'm putting a star next to mine to make sure I keep all the
"Norskémon" I caught there. 
Norwegian Pokémon Trainers, Skjolden, Norway.
Meet two of Norway's local Poké Trainers! While they are very few and far between in this part of the
world, there actually was a Pokégym in Skjolden. Our local gym is held down with two Flareons by
Fyfan and Flexnes96. Team Instinct represent! This was the first gym encounter I played in the
game and also caught a few Pokémon while there. (I prefer to call these Norwegian varieties
"Norskémon")
This solitary Pokégym can be found at the Jonsok, a sculpture by artist Kati Casida, named after the
Norwegian Summer Solstice, that stands on the shore at the very end of the Sognefjord in Skjolden. 

Day five comes to an end. Tomorrow will be the biggest day of the trip.
Skjolden, Norway is gorgeous.
Starting out day 6 in Skjolden, Norway.
Skjolden is the setting of so many epic Norsk folktales of trolls, giants, goblins and dragons.
Famously transcribed here by Asbjørnsen and Moe back in 1841. The ancient folktales of Skjolden
have titles like the best D&D games ever played...
THE TROLLS IN HEDALE WOOD.
THE GOLDEN CASTLE THAT HUNG IN THE AIR.
THE GIANT WHO HAD NO HEART IN HIS BODY
These Skjolden, Norway folktales have been endlessly adapted, you may not know the stories by
their original names but you have probably heard many. THE GIANT WHO HAD NO HEART IN HIS
BODY is also story of both PAPER MARIO and BALDUR'S GATE 2.
REYNARD WANTS TO TASTE HORSE-FLESH has to be the greatest title of any Norwegian 
folktale ever. Gather 'round the fire, kids!
Day 6.
Tindevegen, Jotunheimen Mountains, Norway.
Tindevegen, one of the most awe-inspiring roads on Earth. This photo of our rental car's GPS Navigation
screen is a pretty hilarious representation of what it's like to drive the snake-like Tindevegen through the
Jotunheimen Mountains. This road not also is very steep in places with some parts with a 12.5% grade.
Or... if that drive seems too terrifying... you could always jump off the edge and paraglide down into the valley
like this guy did! (great view of our road of switchbacks in this video
here)https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=v3QI28c53XM 
Årdalstangen Church, Norway.
Årdal is two villages, and across the Årdalsvatnet lake from Øvre Årdal lies the second and much
smaller half, known as Årdalstangen. Here we find the Årdalstangen Church built in 1867.
Årdalstangen. has a population of just 1,489, just about a third of the size of the town of Boscobel,
Wisconsin where my grandparents lived. The nearby valley of Seimsdalen (where Seim is located)
has a population of just 467 for the entire valley, which is just about the same size as Gays Mills,
Wisconsin where my grandparents lived before moving to Boscobel.
A rather excellent Norwegian crime drama series FRIKJENT ("Acquitted" in English) was filmed here
in Årdalstangen, so if you'd like to see a ton of beautiful footage from this town and the nearby area
in the context of an awesome TV show, I highly recommend checking it out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OwFwowR0qfo
Seim headstones at Årdalstangen Church, Norway.
There are a *bunch* of Seim (the original Norwegian spelling of the Sime family name) headstones
at Årdalstangen Church, just up the road from the tiny village of Seim. And some very, very old ones
going back to the early 1800s too.
My dad was a bit disappointed to not find any names from our personal family tree. But soon
realized that there likely wouldn't be any gravestones in this tiny cemetery for *our* branch of Seims.
The people who are privileged enough to be buried here, including these Seim family tree members,
are only the most important, most wealthy, and most powerful people in all of the Utladalen valley.
Our branch of the Seim Family Tree, likely "just" farmers and the like, were probably buried on their
own lands, with wooden grave markers at best.
I have photos of every single Seim headstone in this graveyard, so if any one of my family members
would like me to mail them, please just say the word.
And for the record, I am proud to come from "unimportant" branches of that Seim/Sime family tree.
And be descended from people who contribute to society in oftentimes un-celebrated ways. Like
farmers & fishermen, laborers & miners, ship builders & hunters, teachers & shop-keepers. There is
a lot of beauty in that. 
Årdalstangen Church, Norway.
On the other side of that mountain (2.5 miles West via the Seimsdalstunnelen tunnel) is the
Seimsdalen valley and the village of Seim. Where great grandpa Sime and his parents came from.
We're almost there... the homeland of my people. 
Seim, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
Welcome to Seim!
From Årdalstangen, just on the other side of the 5,000 foot long Seimsdalstunnelen tunnel, is the
Seimsdalen valley and the tiny village of Seim! Such an incredible moment to arrive at this land from
where the Sime Family comes. Here's a video of Seim I found:
https://youtu.be/7IucigSf_24
The Simes immigrated from Norway to "the new world" on The Valkyrien, sailing from Bergen,
Norway on May 4th, 1873 and landing in Quebec on June 22nd, 1873. The Valkyrien's passenger
list has my great, great grandparents, Ole T. Seim (age 32) and Sonnevi Seim (age 33), and their
children Anne Olsen Seim (age 9), Thomas Olsen Seim (age 3 - my great grandfather) and Henrik
Olsen Seim (age 9 months).
The Valkyrien had 307 steerage passengers and 8 cabin passengers. There was an outbreak of
measles on board. As the ship arrived at the quarantine station on Grosse Isle, Quebec, twenty were
sick and there had been two deaths. There were two births on the voyage. Measles were the least of
the passengers' worries, as all had nearly died after the ship collided with another ship off Dover
(there were no survivors on that other boat). 
More on the voyage of the Valkyrien:
http://www.norwayheritage.com/articles/templates/voyages.asp?articleid=81&zoneid=6
Immigrants at Grosse Île Quarantine Station, 1832-1937:
http://www.bac-lac.gc.ca/eng/discover/immigration/immigration-records/immigrants-grosse-ile-1832-
1937/Pages/immigrants-grosse-ile.aspx
Seim, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
This is the view of the from the road at Seim out at the Årdalsfjorden. Gorgeous!
Now that we've arrived in Seim we're going to get a *bunch* of pictures of the village in a row here.
As this is such a tiny village in a mostly unpopulated valley, tucked far away from the rest of the
world, there is just *so* little information on the place or the people. But I still have a bunch of photos
to share. This is, after all, the homeland of my people.
I believe if you follow this little river upstream you will find the adorable Torlifossen waterfall. You can
find a couple photos of that if you search it on Instagram. 
Seim, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
The rocky Årdalfjord beach at Seim. There is an annual (?) 4 1/2 mile long uphill footrace that starts
here in called the "Aosen Up". It goes from the beach in Seimsdalen, up the valley and through the
world’s steepest tunnel (7,217 foot long) to Aosen in the Offerdalen valley.
This is where Ole Seim and Sonnevi Seim and their children (Anne age 9, Thomas age 3 - my great
grandfather, and the baby Henrik Seim) first put the boat in the water and headed off to America. 
Seim Beach, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
My folks on the waterfront at Seim, right where my ancestors put their boats in the water, and where
my great, great grandparents and their children began their journey to "the New World".
My dad might not be the most overly emotional or sentimental guy but he is a starry-eyed romantic
at heart who loves mountains and rivers and trees and delicate wild flowers most of all. And this part
of Norway is pretty much nothing but. Here he is gathering a few souvenir rocks to give to his sisters
back home.
This is really one of those spectacular moments I will remember and treasure for the rest of my life. 
Seim, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
Kirsten on the waterfront at Seim, right where my ancestors put their boats in the water. Her expert travel
planning (and driving!) made this moment possible.
This photo is awesome. 
My dad on Seim waterfront, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
Beautiful clouds in the sky over Årdalfjord, right where my ancestors put their boats in the water. And
where my great, great grandparents and their children began their journey to America in 1873. 
My dad at the Seim waterfront, Seimsdalen valley, Norway.
I think my grandparents would have really loved to see these pictures of their son on the waterfront
where my great, great grandparents Ole and Sonnevi and their children first left on their grand
adventure to America in 1873.
So this one is for them, Adolf and Margaret Sime. 

Seim / Øyane, Seimsdalen, Norway
Remnants of yesteryear, this little old school house in a yard in the village of Seim / Øyane. There
are a few of these ancient buildings scattered around Seim / Øyane and, as you will see, I'm posting
photos of them all. The valley of Seimsdalen (where Seim is located) has a population of just 467 for
the entire valley.
Of course I don't know much about this particular adorable little old schoolhouse aside from "Hey
look, I got a picture of it!" but... in case some member of my family wants to go further with the
research & learn more about this, or any of the other vintage buildings in Seim / Øyane, I *did*
manage to track down the local historical society. The group is called Årdal Sogelag, their website
is:
http://www.sogelaget.no/
and their Facebook page can be found here:https://www.facebook.com/ArdalSogelag
Here's an amazing historical film they made (in Norwegian) which features a bunch of photos from
Seimsdalen from the 1800s.
Stølsdrift i Årdal - Årdal Sogelag
https://vimeo.com/43337199
Seim / Øyane, Seimsdalen, Norway
Old farmhouse. If you want to see *actual photos* of what life was like in 1800s Seimsdalen valley
around the time my great, great grandparents were there, and see photos of people they surely
knew, we are fortunate to have discovered these.
Page One:
http://tinyurl.com/h2rs8pg
Page Two:
http://tinyurl.com/zt7ecud
Page Three:
http://tinyurl.com/hs7d9zv
Page Four:
http://tinyurl.com/j4w424q
Page Five:
http://tinyurl.com/jsyodlh
Wow! 
Seim / Øyane, Seimsdalen, Norway
Hard to know how old this farmhouse actually is, so instead of just guessing, I found another little
piece of vintage Seimsdal history for you guys to enjoy... I put in a ton of hours into doing searches
on the internet in Norwegian to find stuff for this photoset... and this Seim photos and footage is
definitely some of the coolest stuff of all!
Check out this 1974 video of a ski event in Seimsdalen with Olympic gold medalists Harald
Grønningen, Gjermund Eggen, Oddvar Brå and Petter
Northug: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=lpS5DvkNsSk
Seim / Øyane, Seimsdalen, Norway
My dad was *very* interested with this falling down old barn in Seim / Øyane. I wish I'd gotten some
photos of the other side which was being propped up to keep it from falling down completely.
If anyone wants to get some answers for him on the age of this barn and what they were farming
here, please contact Årdal Sogelag, the local historical society. Their website is:
http://www.sogelaget.no/
And their Facebook page can be found here:https://www.facebook.com/ArdalSogelag
Seim / Øyane, Seimsdalen, Norway
Another old Seim / Øyane schoolhouse. Check out this Google Translated page with even more
photos of Seimsdal and local farms from around 1915-1920. It's a pretty poor translation, where it
even works, so reading will take a bit of mental calisthenics. But neat nonetheless.
http://tinyurl.com/jago8th
Once again, the local historical society is Årdal Sogelag. Their website is:
http://www.sogelaget.no/
And their Facebook page can be found here:https://www.facebook.com/ArdalSogelag
Seim / Øyane, Seimsdalen, Norway
This old farm house doesn't really look all that old to me, but I'm not a dendrochronologist (the
scientific study of dating trees & wooden structures) so I could very well be wrong. And if we're going
to document these buildings in Seim / Øyane, I figured I should include it here. 

Seim / Øyane, Seimsdalen, Norway
Here's a look at Seim / Øyane from "in town". On the other side of that mountain (2.5 miles West via
the Seimsdalstunnelen tunnel) is the Årdalstangen Church. Directly to the left here is where all those
old buildings, schoolhouses and farmhouses stand. Down the road, on the other side of that tree, is
the Seim waterfront where those other photos were taken. There's more of Seim up a hill further to
the right, homes with some of the greatest views on Earth! You can see these houses very clearly in
the video where it says "Velkommen til SEIMSDALEN"https://youtu.be/7IucigSf_24
What a great privilege to have gotten to visit the ancestral home of the Sime family! Words cannot
express how profound and powerful this sojourn to this small little village was for me. I am deeply
thankful to have visited. Thanks to Kirsten & my folks for making it all come true. And also thanks to
Michael, Josh & Kate who took such good care of the Isotope while I was gone. 

Fly Agaric Mushroom in the Utladalen valley. Norway.
While taking our hike to the Avdalsfossen, Høljafossen, and Vettisfossen waterfalls, I discovered a
number of *huge* bright red wild mushrooms growing on an embankment. I scrambled up to get a
picture of one.
As I was taking this photo, using my hand for scale, my parents (who are life-long outdoors naturalist
types) yelled up at me "DON'T TOUCH IT, THEY MAY BE POISONOUS!" I laughed and said
"DON'T WORRY, I'M NOT GOING TO TOUCH IT. SHEESH!" Come on, I'm not an naturalist, but I'm
also not an idiot, I know better than to touch some strange random super poisonous looking
Norwegian wild mushrooms! So I got my photo. And then... (of course)... my foot slipped on the
embankment... and my pinky TOUCHED THE STRANGE RANDOM SUPER POISONOUS
LOOKING NORWEGIAN WILD MUSHROOM! Ah, dammit!
Fortunately we had a wetnap in a pocket so I quickly wiped off my pinky. And for a day or so I
teasingly threatened Kirsten with my "Poison Pinky of Doooom!" until I managed to finally remember
to look up the mushroom when we had internet access.
And what I found out was it *is* classified as highly poisonous... because it is psychoactive... a byproduct of Muscimol and Ibotenic Acid. Yep, I'd found myself a patch of very famous huge
hallucinogenic wild mushrooms!
Now even if you're like me and know nothing about psychedelic mushrooms, you'll know this one.
The Fly Agaric (Amanita Mascara). As seen in cartoons like DISNEY'S FANTASIA and THE
SMURFS, in video games like SUPER MARIO WORLD and METAL GEAR SOLID 3, on stage with
psych-rockers Hawkwind and on the cover of kraut rock godfather Mani Neumeier's PRIVAT album,
in books like CITIZEN OF THE WORLD and HANSEL & GRETEL, and in comics like ASTERIX AT
THE OLYMPICS, as Vishanti's toadstool chair in DOCTOR STRANGE, and in Mœbius' A TRUE
WONDER OF THE UNIVERSE.
Interestingly the psychoactive effects of Amanita Mascara are said to cause size distortions, making
people feel either very, very large or very, very tiny. Yep, that's right, this is the mushroom from
ALICE IN WONDERLAND. I think Lewis Carroll found a patch of these too.
So this was a cool find & a fun little thing to research. I have a couple friends who are probably
screaming at me through the monitor by now.
No I did not eat one. I'm not a naturalist but I know better than to just eat some strange random
super poisonous looking Norwegian psychedelic mushrooms! SHEESH. 

Utla River, downstream from the Avdalsfossen Waterfall. Norway.
This is the trailhead to the Utladalen Waterfalls, including the Vettisfossen, Høljafossen, and
Avdalsfossen. The famous Vettisfossen is over 900 feet high, and the tallest free-falling waterfall in
all of Norway. This riverside hike, all along a pretty easy grade, is about 7 1/2 miles round trip. Along
the way lots of stunning views of the Utla River, and several un-named waterfalls too,
Somewhere near the Høljafossen Waterfall I couldn't resist scrambling down the embankment to a
nice looking rock, taking off my shoes and socks, and putting my feet into Utla River in a spot
protected by the fast rushing rapids. It was VERY COLD but felt incredible. And fortunately I didn't
fall in or lose a shoe in the process!
This hike was one of my dad's favorite parts of the trip.
Utla River, downstream from the Høljafossen Waterfall. Norway.
This is the best photo I managed to get on this entire trip of the amazingly blue / turquoise color of
the Norwegian glacial meltwater rivers. These brilliantly colored glacial waters get their "glacial milk"
color from sediment from rocks grinding together underneath the glacier. The fine "rock flour" powder
is then suspended in the water and absorbs and scatters varying colors of sunlight, giving these 
glacial rivers and lakes a milky turquoise appearance. If the amazing sentient-like clouds, majestic
mountains of myth, abundance of epic waterfalls, and mind-blowing vistas aren't enough to make
you feel like you've walked into an ancient folktale of a mystical land... seeing the completely weird
and gorgeous color of the water will convince you... Norse mythology is real. And you're living it.
You can see some red berries in the Mountain Ash here, those were *everywhere* along the Utla
River, In Norway and Europe they are known as Rowan Trees. In Arthurian Legend, the evil
Morgana le Fay has a staff carved from the wood of the Rowan Tree which allows her half-sister
Morgouse, The Seductive Necromancer, to bring skeletons to life.
While some people believe these berries of the Mountain Ash to be poisonous, they are not, and are
often used in jams, jellies, wines and cordials.
Utla River, downstream from the Høljafossen Waterfall. Norway.
We stopped several times along the way to sample tiny, wild Norwegian strawberries (Markjordbær)
which, if you've not had them, are itty-bitty explosions of the most intense, delicious and intoxicating
strawberry flavor.
A Norwegian wild strawberry tradition is making Markjordbær På Strå, by threading the tiny, deep-
red berries onto long blades of grass, like jewels on a necklace, which translates directly as
"strawberry on straw".
With so much time to look at wildflowers and plants this hike was one of the real highlights of the trip
for my naturalist dad. 

Avdalsfossen Waterfall, Utladalen. Norway.
At the top of the Avdalsfossen Waterfall is the Slufsedøla en de Gravdøla river which is fed by
melting glacier water of the Hurrungane mountain range (in Jotunheimen) and here falls 567 feet
and joins into the Utla River.
Skjolden, Norway. End of Day 6.
With a trip over the Tindevegen, a visit to Årdalstangen and reaching our destination on the
shoreline of Seim, and then also a long hike along the Utla River... we probably over-stuffed this day
a bit. So it was extra nice to be back to our hotel to catch the sundown.
This will always be one of the most beautiful views in my life to come "home" to. 
Day 7 - Norwegian Glaciers in Fjærland
To give our exhausted feet and legs a break today we'd planned to spend most of the day driving the
windy roads and seeing the majesty of the Norwegian Glaciers. As the day turned out to be kind of
rainy this was perfectly timed!
I tried searching the metadata on this photo to figure out where exactly it was taken to no avail.
We're somewhere in Jostedalsbreen National Park, up among the clouds, on our way to
Brævasshytta Cafeteria in Fjærland.
Brævasshytta Cafeteria sits at the base of the Bøyabreen Glacier in Fjærland and has one of the
greatest views I have ever seen. The panoramic video coming up in this series (which is just jawdropping) I took standing above the cafe.
Brævasshytta Cafeteria in Fjærland is not to be missed. Here's a bit more
info: https://www.tripadvisor.com/LocationPhotoDirectLink-g1439211-d4502946-i142507531-BraevasshyttaFjaerland_Sogndal_Municipality_Sogn_og_Fjordane_Western_N.html

Briksdalsbreen glacier, Stryn, Norway
The Briksdalsbreen is most accessible arm of the massive Jostedalsbreen glacier. You can literally
drive up, take a short walk upstream, and put your hand right on the Briksdalsbreen.
Of course... as these signs clearly demonstrate... there is a hint of danger! 

This glacier warning sign tells an entire story about how you will die in a single image.
I wish all graphic design could be this perfect.
Norwegian Glacier Museum, Fjærland, Norway.
Everything about this part of Norway is gorgeous!
The Norwegian Glacier Museum (Norsk Bremuseum) building was designed by famed Norwegian
architect Sverre Fehn, who also did the 1958 Norwegian Pavilion at the Brussels World’s Fair and
the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design in Oslo. Sorry guys, they don't want you to try
to ride the the Wooly Mammoth statues out front.
Fun Fact: The exhibit "Our Fragile Climate" was opened in July 2007 by former US vice-president
Walter Mondale.
Here's a clip from a film by Ivo Caprino that they show at the
Museum: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BPLt-dkcQlY
Norwegian Glacier Museum, Fjærland, Norway.
First thing inside the Norsk Bremuseum is an actual chunk of real glacier ice you can play with and
also this friendly 10 foot tall polar bear. If you want to get some glacier hikes or glacial skiing in while
in Norway, the Norsk Bremuseum is a great the starting point for your adventures!
Exhibits here include detailed explanations of glacial flow, meltwaters and history, a 30,000 year old
Siberian Mammoth tusk, and 5300 year old iceman Ötzi who was found in a glacier in the European
Alps in 1991.
Gorgeous video of the Fjærland
countryside:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtvWuKO6Bz0&feature=youtu.be
Somewhere near Fjærland, Norway
I took this picture thinking about my Aunt Linda and Uncle Al, who I'm sure would love to see what a
random Norwegian Farm. I hope these photos and write-ups inspire them to go here and visit the
Sime Homeland sometime. 
Kaupanger Stave Church
Yet *another* Stave Church! This one, Kaupanger, is the largest in the Sogn region. Design wise it is
less spectacular compared to some of the other ones we saw, but I think my photos are still
incredibly striking.
Recent restorations have revealed that there were two churches here prior to the one we see
standing here. The first of which some has survived and is incorporated in this "modern" church. And
under that church is a layer of ash that is the only remains of the original Kaupanger church. In this
ash was discovered a coin minted in 1130 AD, the year when Norway was first Christianised. So this
is very likely one of the first Christian churches built in Norway.
Kaupanger village has been a trading post since the Viking age. The town also features the Sogn
Fjordmuseum and also the Kaupanger ferry landing. 
Kaupanger Stave Church
Inspired by the sounds of the medieval bells in Kaupanger stave church, composer Arne Nordhei
created his work "Klokkeson." Nordhei has the distinct honor of having a celestial body named after
him, a dwarf planet in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. Also Frank Zappa was a huge fan.
Kaupanger Stave Church is still an active church and has been in regular use as Kaupanger’s parish
church since it was built. 
Ferry Landing at Kaupanger
Here begins out ferry ride from Kaupanger to Gudvangen. A two and a half hour long ferry ride along
the Sognefjord (Norway´s longest and deepest fjord) and the Nærøyfjord (which is, as you can
probably guess from the name, very narrow).
It is pretty amazing how good they are at squeezing cars on to this tiny ferry. Apparently they can fit
up to 27 cars on a single trip. 
Amlabukti Bay, near Kaupanger.
On our ferry ride, just off shore from Kaupanger.
For those friends of mine interested in Norwegian heavy music - this part of Norway is home to a
very region-specific genre of heavy metal music, Sognametal, springing from the Northern shore of
the Sognefjord. Very epic and atmospheric in style, this Viking folk-infused black metal boasts only a
handful of highly influential bands. A lot of the Norwegian music I like best either comes from here or
is influenced by the bands that call this area home.
Most famous of these Sognametal bands is Windir who popularized the genre and style of this kind
of melodic fjord Viking metal. Other bands in this genre include Cor Scorpii, Mistur, Vreid, Soknangr,
Sigtyr, Myrkgrav, and Skald. 
Clouds of Norway over the Sognefjord.
It is impossible for me to look at this series of photos from this boat trip along the Sognefjord and not
think of Norse mythology. Especially that Norwegian sky. Frigga (also known as Frigg, The Beloved)
is the sky goddess, responsible for weaving the clouds and for weaving the fates. She is also the
goddess of love, marriage, and destiny. And the wife of Odin, The All-Father.
As you'll see Frigga the Sky Goddess sure likes making awesome looking clouds over Norway. 
Sognefjord ferry ride. Near Frønningen.
We will soon pass the tiny village of Frønningen, yet another tiny Norwegian fjordtown with a rich
history and home of a famous artist. Frønningen has literally 17 inhabitants total and the town is only
available by boat.
Amog the few buildings here is the Frønningen-godset, a historic manor built in 1901. The manor
hosts a gallery of famous Norwegian painter Knut Rumohr's original work.
More on Knut Rumohr:
https://www.mutualart.com/Artist/Knut-Rumohr/BADD319F31F74D95

Sognefjord ferry ride.
Here's a shot of my dad hanging out by the Norsk flag on the ship's stern. I believe in the
background in this shot is part of Bleia Mountain, which runs alongside the fjord. Bleia is a popular
ski spot with some seriously wicked elevation.
For reference how big the fjords and these mountains are, the top of Bleia is 1717 meters above sea
level (that's 5,633 feet). But what about under the water? It is 2850 meters from the top of Bleia to
the bottom of Sognefjord (a total of just over 9.350 feet... that is over five times as tall as the World
Trade Center tower).
The Grand Canyon is a mere 1857 meters (6,093 feet).
So when people tell you these fjords are "epic" you know what they (and me) are talking about!
My dad is just about 6 foot tall. And something of a giant in my eyes. 

Sognefjord to Nærøyfjord ferry ride.
This part of the whole vacation was just the *perfect* trip. Above us on this 2.5 hour boat ride were
mostly fluffy white dramatic clouds and blue skies but we had some rain earlier which means we also
got to catch a couple gorgeous rainbows on this ride.
I knew this would be one of my dad's favorite parts of the whole trip. There just really is nothing like
being on a boat in the Norwegian fjords.
Just look at those smiles!
Sognefjord to Nærøyfjord ferry ride.
Here we are (still on our boat ride) entering into the Bleia-Storebotnen Nærøyfjord Conservation
Area and the Nordheimsdalen nature reserve. Things are about to get very dramatic as we get into
the Nærøyfjord proper.
My dad is a naturalist so he'll love to hear all the following details and features of the local flora and
fauna. 
PLANT LIFE
- A famous ancient pine forest
- A rare sub-species of arctic poppy (papaver radicatum ssp. relictum)
linden forest
endangered cryptogam flora (spore-reproducing plants
drooping woodreed.
Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), but birch (Betula spp.) woodland communities are the most common. A
somewhat richer grey alder (Alnus incana)
COMMON WATER ANIMALS
- Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar)
- Norwegian seal (Phoca vitulina)
- Norwegian lobsters
- sea pens.
- Porpoise (Phocoena phocoena)
- White-beaked dolphin (Lagenorhynchus albirostris)
- Sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus)
- Minke whales (Balaenoptera acutorostrata)
- Killer whales (Orcinus orca)
COMMON LAND ANIMALS
- Norwegian reindeer (Rangifer tarandus)
- Red deer (Cervus elaphus)
- Roe deer (Capreolus capreolus)
- Fallow deer (Cervus dama) non-native
- A rare Norwegian Elk (Alces alces)
- Arctic fox (Alopex lagopus)
- Brown bear (Ursus arctos)
- Lynx (Lynx)
- Wolverine (Gulo gulo)
- Otter (Lutra lutra)
BIRDS
- Norwegian dipper (Cinclus cinclus)
- Gyrfalcon
- White-tailed sea eagle
- Golden eagle
- Northern goshawk
- Eurasian sparrow hawk
- Merlin
- White-backed woodpecker
- Common kestrel
- Rough-legged buzzard
- Norwegian ducks
Some 100 bird species typical of western Norway breed in the area, ranging from coastal birds to 
high mountain species. The rivers have Norway’s densest population of the national bird, the dipper
(Cinclus cinclus). The alpine and subalpine mires attract many waders and the cliffs host several
raptors. The invertebrate fauna is not well known, but most of the habitats may have quite a rich
range of species.
The vegetation ranges with altitude between boreonemoral in the valleys to taiga on the plateaus. It
is typical of this part of West Norway, and is moderately diverse. Pockets of peridotitite and
serpentinite rocks in the Geirangerfjord area give nutrient-rich soil. Its main vegetation types are
temperate woodland, rock and scree, alpine grassland and man-made meadows. The woodland
includes old deciduous woods, pinewoods on peridotite, wooded pasture and small patches of very
diverse deciduous woods on warm south-facing slopes. Around Nærøyfjord woodlands are similar
but vary with the soil, moisture, exposure, altitude above sea level and use. There are large natural
woods of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), but birch (Betula spp.) woodland communities are the most
common. A somewhat richer grey alder (Alnus incana) community dominates on avalanche fans
beside the fjords. The best virgin pine woodland in western Norway is found in Nordheimsdalen and
below Bleia. In a belt of phyllites around Flamsdalen 500 species have been recorded including
unusual species.
The Alpine flora of the Geirangerfjord area is dependent on snow cover and ranges from dwarf birch
(Betula spp.) and polar willow (Salix polaris) to herb-rich grassland. The grasses of the grazed
meadows host many rare fungi. Above the tree-line between 800m and 900m are scree, blockfields,
snow fields and glaciers. The tree-line above Nærøyfjord is between 900 and 1100m. Half the alpine
flora of Norway is found on its mountains, on carbonate rocks and lenses of phyllite. In the ungrazed
highland of Bleia there is natural grassland and on its screes, a rare sub-species of arctic poppy
(Papaver radicatum sp.relictum). 

Sognefjord to Nærøyfjord ferry ride.
Since this photoset contains all sorts of random things I am interested in, I guess we should talk
about Norwegian suits, too, right?
The suit I'm wearing here is a Falcone. But My *favorite* suit in my entire closet is a Moods of
Norway Rolf Tonning in dark purple plaid. And my second favorite is a Moods of Norway blue narrow
pinstripe. Those Norwegians sure do make some great suits!
Founders / designers Simen Staalnacke and Peder Børresen started Moods of Norway in 2003 in
the town of Stryn, Norway (population 7,218), which is North of Skjolden on the Nordfjord. Their
quirky suits celebrate the local Norse heritage, each one embroidered with the number of tractors in
Norway and also boasting some funny labels like "Made With Love By Really Really Pretty Blonde
Girls" and "Pants Inspired By Deep Fjords, A Few Cocktails, And A Grandmother With Exquisite
Taste."
In 2014 the Moods of Norway became the official designers of both the Norwegian Olympic team
and also for Norwegian Airlines. Those mens' and womens' flight attendant outfits are so great.
I discovered this Norwegian company's amazing suits the way many other Americans did by seeing
Ru wear them on RuPaul's Drag Race.
They had stopped most production on their full suits by 2015 / 2016 so I didn't get to buy any in their
Oslo store. But I did get some Moods cufflinks and an umbrella. I wear those cufflinks all the time.
Although I seriously considered it, I didn't bring my Moods of Norway suits on this trip because I'm
trying to keep them as pristine as possible. As they're my two most expensive and also my most
impossible-to-replace suits, I don't wear them all that often. And very rarely take them on a trip. If I'm
hanging out with you in one of my "Happy Suits for Happy People" we're either at a very special
occasion together or simply you are one of my favorite people. You know who you are. Or maybe
you don't. But I do! (laugh)
Sadly the company declared bankruptcy in September, 2017. So I probably won't be getting many
more suits by these two awesome designers.
2019 UPDATE: It appears Moods of Norway has *not* gone out of business! 
Sognefjord to Nærøyfjord ferry ride.
This part of Norway is the definition of epic. To give you a sense of scale of what you're looking at,
the "hills" here reach heights of 4593 feet, which is just about the length of 13 football fields.
Waterfalls are everywhere in fjord country (as you've probably come to realize by now)... and also...
the Fossegrimmen!
Fossegrimmen is a mythological water-creature who sits naked under waterfalls, playing his fiddle.
He is said to teach humans his magical fiddle techniques in exchange for a food offering made on a
Thursday evening and in secrecy. They're picky though! Legend has it they prefer an offering of a
white goat thrown (with head turned away) into a waterfall that flows northwards. Or if you're willing
to steal smoked mutton (fenalår) from your neighbor as an offering for four Thursdays in a row? Ok,
that'll do, too.
But don't be skimping on those offerings hopeful student! Because if there's not enough meat on the
bone the Fossegrimmen will only teach you how to tune your fiddle!
But if you've done your offering right, and your offering is to the fussy creature's satisfaction, you're
in luck! You are going to get a violin lesson you will never forget! The Fossegrimmen will then take 
your right hand and roughly run your fingers along the strings until they all bleed.(laugh)! But that is a
small price to play for a fiddle player because after your fingers heal you will be able to play so well
that "the trees shall dance and torrents in their fall shall stand still."
Famous legendary virtuoso violinists who are said to have learnt from a Fossegrim are Myllarguten
and Ole Bull.
Oh if only I'd known before I went to Norway! Next time I will have to plan better.
On the Nærøyfjord
Our car ferry has taken us through the widest fjord (Sognefjord) and into the narrowest one
(Nærøyfjord) as goats graze nearby on land and playful seals circle our ferry.
Truly one of life's most magical experiences. 
On the Nærøyfjord.
Want to learn some more Norse mythology? How about how the world (Midgard) was created?
From Ymir's skull the sons of Bor made the sky and set it over the earth with its four sides. Under
each corner they put a dwarf, whose names are East, West, North, and South. The sons of Bor flung
Ymir's brains into the air, and they became the clouds.
Then they took the sparks and burning embers that were flying about after they had been blown out
of Muspell, and placed them in the midst of Ginnungagap to give light to heaven above and earth
beneath. To the stars they gave appointed places and paths.
The earth was surrounded by a deep sea. The sons of Bor gave lands near the sea to the families of
giants for their settlements.
And it was into this world that the Norse People were born.
Disney fans will probably notice that Arendelle from FROZEN was inspired by this area. 

On the Nærøyfjord.
Just another snapshot of a small moment on our two and a half hour ferry ride from Kaupanger to
Gudvangen.
If you look in the background of this picture you'll see the tiny little farm houses at Nobbi point. That's
all that is there, just 5 buildings. This is such a significant area of population that I was able to locate
it on a map. That's how small some of these Norwegian fjord villages are.
On the Nærøyfjord.
I spoke of magic earlier and in the presence of this magical place let's discuss two forms of Old
Norse magic(k) practiced in ancient times.
Galdr, is a verbal rune / stave magic, also known as "sacred singing." This magic is often associated
with Oðinn and also Freyja. The art of Galdr magic is a practice which one's will and self control of
conscience and environment. Protection, luck, intuition, knowledge, even curses and inertial /
entropic control are attributed to Galdr magic.
Seiðr is a trance magic, the art of altering the course of life by re-weaving part of destiny's web. This 
magic was first taught by the goddess Freyja to Oðinn. This practice is realized by the loss of one's
control of self, conscience, and environment. the inhibited sumbersion of one's self into something
outside the practicer's persona. Prophecy, magical healing, astral travel, and shapeshifting are
attributed to Seiðr magic.
Both forms of Norse magic(k), Galdr and Seiðr, are said to be very dangerous. Tread carefully,
novice sorcerers!
Pinstriped Viking in Gudvangen, Norway.
Posing with the at the end of the Nærøyfjord in Gudvangen, Norway. Gudvangen means “Gods place by the
water” and having been here I can tell you I agree, this place is magnificent. Gudvangen has an annual Viking 
Festival and Village. As far as this photo goes, as Darwyn Cooke once said, "James Sime is James Sime, 24
hours a day!"
In 2017 I was asked by our friends at American Express to apply to be featured in a nationwide "this is my
small business" ad. What an amazing opportunity for my comic store, Isotope - The Comic Book Lounge! The
truth is I don't really enjoy being on camera and that level of exposure totally freaks me out (ask me sometime
about the day I saw the page-sized photo of me in the SF Chronicle while commuting to work - I hid for days
after that!)... but there was no way I was going to turn down a free American Express ad! So I filled out my
application and told them about all the fun, quirky, and awesome things I do with my comic shop. And I wrote
passionately about my philosophies and approach to small business. "They're either going to love me or they'll
pick someone else!"
The American Express ad application requested a recent photo. Of course they wanted one of those classic
shots of me in my comic shop. Sure, I've got those photos. Some great ones too. But instead I included this
photo because it made me laugh. (LAUGH)!
They didn't pick me for their ad. But I'm not too upset about it. (laugh) They said they'd ask me again. But if
not, oh well, the shop is doing well without a national ad campaign so I can't be too unhappy about it.
This whole endeavor pretty much sums up my entire small business philosophy:
They're either going to love you or they'll pick someone else. It's okay. Just keep doing good work, stay true to
your vision, and never be shy about being the best version of yourself you can be.
Now go forth & find your own inner Pinstriped Viking. You may not get a national ad campaign but when
you're true to yourself there simply is no advertising needed. 

Viking ship detail at Gudvangen.
If you do the "Norway in a Nutshell" trains + boat tour from Oslo to Bergen (recommended, I did that
exact tour on my previous trip to Norway) the town of Gudvangen at the end of the Nærøyfjord, will
be one of your stops.
Here in Gudvangen you will find a recreation Viking longboat to pose with for photos and also one of
the most beautiful valleys and town ever. They have a Viking Camp here called Njardarheimr and
the Village of the Vikings so you can learn some Norwegian history and also an annual Viking
festival that looks like a lot of fun. Sure it's a tourist trap. But it is a *Norwegian* tourist trap so that
makes it cool.
For those wondering, according to my internet research "Njardar" is a Norse god among the Vanir
associated with sea, seafaring, wind, fishing, wealth, and crop fertility. His name means “devoted to
Njord." I haven't had a chance to look up Njardar in my old Snorri Sturluson books yet. 

At the Tvindefossen near Voss, Norway.
Kirsten Baldock and I don't take too many cheesy couples photos but who doesn't love a romantic
picture at a waterfall?
Voss, Norway is famous for bottling the most expensive "Artesian Water" in the world, roughly $15 a
gallon, from right here in nearby Voss. So these hundreds of thousands of gallons of water
cascading down the cliff in this photo would set you back a pretty penny!
The Tvindefossen is said to be 152 meters high, so for scale - If you stood the "W" from the famous
Hollywood sign on top of the highest point on the London Eye... you'd still be 2 meters too short!
Or how about - Shaquille O'Neal is 7 feet 1' tall, so this waterfall is about 71 Shaquille O'Neals high!
Speaking of romantic, the waters of the Tvindefossen are said to increase sexual potential, so
hundreds of thousands of tourists come here to get some of this sexy, sexy Voss water.
Those people in the background of this photo? Some of them are filling their water bottles! 

Tvindefossen near Voss, Norway.
The Kroelvi river crashes over a cliff and falls almost 489 feet here - the mighty Tvindefossen! This
was one of the most beautiful waterfalls that we saw in all of Norway, photos definitely do not do it
justice.
Near Voss (where the most expensive "Artesian Water" on Earth comes from) and just off the road
to Flåm. With a reported 272,000 visitors in a year theTvindefossen is sure to have a bus or two in
the nearby parking lot every day and hordes of tourists visiting and filling containers with the
rejuvenating waters that promise sexual potency.
We were pretty lucky that there weren't many people when we arrived. And this photo is just
awesome! Every time I see it I think "We should make a poster out of that!"
My dad was feeling pretty wiped out by the time we got here and we'd already seen roughly a
thousand waterfalls on the day already so he stayed in the car (who can blame him, have you seen
how much we did on this day?!). So we got this triumphant solo photo of Rose standing in front of this
massive, empowering waterfall. You go, Rose!
Next stop... Bergen, Norway! Where a bark boat, The Valkyrien, took the Sime family across the
ocean to the New World in 1873. 
The Valkyrien at Bergen, Norway in 1873.
Aside from visiting the village of Seim and to get to stand on that rocky shore where my great, great
grandparents and their children first boarded a boat for the New World... it was equally monumental
for me to get to go to the dock in Bergen, Norway where they boarded this boat, The Valkyrien, and
sailed from Norway across the turbulent Atlantic Ocean to North America!
It is pretty amazing to have these photos of the very boat my ancestors took. And to get to learn of
the horrific and near-fatal journey they took!
My grandparents, Adolf and Margaret Sime, visited Bergen in the 1980s and they stood at this
harbor too. I'm sure they looked towards the East and thought of the Seim family before them who 
took this journey. Ole (aged 32), Synneve (aged 33), Anne (aged 9), Thomas (aged 3) and Henrik
(aged 14? months). I'm not aware if my grandparents were lucky enough to have seen these photos
of The Valkyrien but I hope they did.
The launching of The Valkyrien was the inspiration for artist J.F. Løsting's carpenters' banner
painting from Bradbenken dock-yard. Seen here:
http://digitalarkivet.uib.no/utstilling/eng/valfane.htm
The passenger list of The Valkyrien's last trip to America in 1873 can be seen here. My cousins will
probably be interested to see our great, great grandparents and their kids on
there: http://digitalarkivet.uib.no/utstilling/eng/pasli2.htm
More info on The Valkyrien here:
http://digitalarkivet.uib.no/utstilling/eng/valkyri.htm
The Valkyrien at Bergen Harbor, Norway in 1873.
We're going to feature all three of these photos of The Valkyrien because they're cool.
The Valkyrien departed Bergen at 1 o'clock in the afternoon on April the 25th, 1873. The 63 day voyage is a
tale of misfortune, terror, survival, and of hope. An escaped prisoner (who had been jailed for not paying a
mortgage debt) had snuck on board, hoping to abscond to the New World. One of the emigrants paid his debt!
And there was also a thief on board stealing other passenger's provisions.
the Valkyrien, badly damaged, and flooding
It was the end of the era of wind-powered sailing vessels bringing people to America, either the last or one of 
the last, before the steamships took over. And judging by the tale told by the survivors of this trip in 1873,
rightfully so.
We Simes are lucky to have made it!
More info on The Valkyrien here:
http://digitalarkivet.uib.no/utstilling/eng/valkyri.htm
 
The Valkyrien at Bergen, Norway in 1873.
Okay, last photo of The Valkyrien for now... but I'll have one more of these coming up as I managed 
to line up the perfect 1873 vs 2016 shot. This is the boat that brought the Simes from Norway to
America. It was a horrific voyage and the passengers and crew nearly all died within a couple days
of leaving the Bergen port.
This story is featured in in the book ACROSS THE DEEP BLUE SEA: THE SAGA OF NORWEGIAN
IMMIGRANTS by Odd S. Lovoll.
https://books.google.com/books?id=VJvABgAAQBAJ&pg=PT119&lpg=PT119&dq=brigantine+valkyrien&s
ource=bl&ots=EZvckbLfEg&sig=VWhHTss2KcJeWN0BgmS13MkvcU&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiGns7okePcAhUEI6wKHUDpCcsQ6AEwAXoECAkQAQ#v=onep
age&q=brigantine%20valkyrien&f=false
http://www.norwayheritage.com/articles/templates/voyages.asp?articleid=81&zoneid=6
You can see my previous photo for more details, or read about it here:
http://www.norwayheritage.com/articles/templates/voyages.asp?articleid=81&zoneid=6
The Bergen Warf, Norway. 
Bergen, Norway Day One. The iconic wooden buildings at this UNESCO world heritage site, the
Bryggen Hanseatic Warf in Bergen, have been standing here since 1702 and this area has survived
many fires over the centuries.
We stayed just up the block here, Kirsten found us a hotel that looked right out onto the dock where
The Valkyrien once took on my great, great grandparents and their children 143 years before. Ole
(aged 32), Synneve (aged 33), Anne (aged 9), Thomas (aged 3) and Henrik (aged 14? months). It
was amazing to stand here and just soak up my family's history and heritage.
Here's footage of this area from the 1930s:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I78HNB-y1PI
These buildings have been renovated over the years only using the old traditional techniques.
The Bergen Warf, Norway.
Here's another shot of the famous storefronts at the Bergen Warf.
Later, at dinnertime, we ate here on the wharf at the fantastic Bryggeloftet & Stuene Restaurant, 
which has been serving up "bergensk gjestfrihet" (mountain hospitality) and traditional Norwegian
food for over 100 years.
Fisketorget Fish Market on the Warf. Bergen, Norway.
Of the many things I was excited to indulge in while visiting Norway, few were more anticipated for
me than getting to try some Norwegian Crayfish!
The Fish Market (Fisketorget) on the Bergen Warf was where I was told I'd be able to get some... I
was pretty excited to go there and see these nice fish mongers. And they were happy to see me too!
"I'm here for the crawfish and a Norwegian beer." 
Hand Sized Sjøkreps at Bergen Warf!
Sjøkreps (sea crayfish) are also known as Norwegian Lobster (or Langoustine) is a close relative of
the common lobster but is significantly smaller and slimmer with long narrow claws.
Innsjøkreps (lake crayfish) are the freshwater variety,
I'd heard legends of the greatness of Norwegian Crayfish (in Norwegian: Innsjøkreps or Sjøkreps)
and I couldn't help but think about the Icelandic Lamb (In Icelandic: Lamb) I'd had on my trip in 2015,
which was truly the best lamb I'd ever had. And if those Norwegian crawdaddies were like that...
(swoon)! 
I'd just narrowly missed having some Norwegian Crayfish for dinner back in Skjolden... but it was
here, on the Bergen Warf at the famed Fisketorget Fish Market, that I would finally get my chance.
As a lifelong fan of crayfish / crawdaddies / mudbugs I'd dreamed of this moment. My friends,
especially those who I took on my epic Mudbuggin' Adventure Tour of the Sacramento Delta in 2015,
all know how much I love those critters. So this was something I had definitely been anticipating the
whole trip!
The Fish Market (Fisketorget) on the Bergen Warf was where I was told I'd get some... but also
probably my last chance, since my trip was almost over. I felt both a wave of relief that I'd managed
to find some... and also a wave of terror as I saw the SIZE of them!
Sjøkreps on the grill at The Bergen Warf, Norway.
After all this time of searching for Norwegian IInnsjøkreps or Sjøkreps this was indeed my moment! I
ordered three. They sliced them in half and tossed them on the grill.
The guys working at this fish stand were super cool and you could tell they enjoyed having such an
enthusiastic customer. 
Sjøkreps and a Grans Lettøl for dinner at the Bergen Warf, Norway.
With my Sjøkreps coming off the grill I asked, "What local beer should I have with these?" The guys
at the Fisketorget (fish market) suggested a Grans Lettøl Beer. "I drink it every day!" one said with a
laugh.
Grans Lettøl is a light, easy drinking (2.4% ABV) Norwegian beer brewed in the city of Sandefjord,
Norway since 1899. One of Norway's oldest breweries this lager was butterscotchy and a bit grassy.
I enjoyed this Grans Lettøl but probably not as much as those Asse beers from Drammen, Norway.
Grans Lettøl Beer
https://www.ratebeer.com/beer/grans-lettol/13526/
Aass Beer
https://www.ratebeer.com/beer/aass-pilsner/2329/
Kjøttbasaren Market in Bergen, Norway.
Looking out over the Bryggen warf is the Kjøttbasaren Market. Built in 1874 this famous building
houses the Hanseatic Museum and a historic "Meat Bazaar."
Restaurant Egon Kjøttbasaren is the outside portion here, with gorgeous views of the Bergen Warf.
They serve Kyllingkebab, burgers, pastas and also a variety of "Amerikansk" pizzas.
Just past here is the Fløibanen Funicular that will take you to the top of Mount Fløyen and give you a
beautiful view of Bergen and the Bergen warf. 
Bergen from on top of Mount Fløyen.
We took the Fløibanen Funicular, the mountainside railroad, operating by cable with
counterbalanced ascending and descending weight. My dad really was loving checking out how the
Funicular worked.
The Fløibanen has been taking people up that steep mountainside since January 1918 and carries
around 1 million passengers each year to this scenic overlook.
One hundred and forty three years earlier my family set sail from the Festningskai dock here to
travel to North America and start their lives anew in a new world.
What an amazing view. Especially as the sun was setting. 
The historic Bryggen Bergen Warf, Norway.
My folks are very active and were just as excited as I was to soak in as much of Norway as we could
on this trip. And we'd scheduled in as much as the trip would allow. By this point we were all starting
to feel the exhaustion setting in from running hard all trip, including several fjord hikes (up to 2,066 ft
above sea level).
So as the Nordic sun was setting over the Bryggen Bergen Warf, we made our way back to our
hotel. Which was right at the end of this row of historic buildings and looked out over the
Festningskai dock. 
The Festningskai dock at Bryggen Bergen Warf, Norway.
Just off shore here is where the Valkyrien was docked in those old photos.
On the right you can see the famous Bryggen Bergenhus Fortress which was right next to our hotel.
We will be going there tomorrow and be surprised to run into a Renaissance Festival being held
there. It was amazing.
We had one more day in Norway. 

I had to get a photo of this!
Here's a bit about the music scene in Bergen, Norway. In the early nineties, Bergen was considered
the "pop city" of Norway, while its rival Oslo was considered the "rock city." Of course that only made
the underground rock scene in Bergen that much more intense and things have changed a lot in
those years. The Bergen music scene includes all sorts of cool bands. Here's some notable ones
you might want to check out.
Norwegian Black Metal legends Immortal and Gorgoroth, punk bands Aller Værste and Elektrisk
Reg, indie rock bands Megaphonic Thrift and Kakkmaddafakka, synthpop bands Datarock and
Casiokids, viking/extreme bands Enslaved and Helheim, pop bands Pogo Pops and Chocolate
Overdose, electronic artists Lindstrøm and Todd Terje, folk pop bands Kings Of Convenience and
Julie Stokkendal, Norwegian rap groups Hester V75, A-Laget, and Myra.
And while you are in Bergen be sure to check out the rock club Garage, which literally has a shrine
to Lemmy from Motorhead in it. 
Tonga Bar in Bergen, Norway.
After my parents went to bed we went and checked out the city's nightlife... including the hidden third
floor Tonga Bar.
Yes, I went to *another* tiki bar in Norway! (#IFindTikiBarsEverywhere) The Tonga Bar in Bergen
has a great staff and a delightful tiki-overload ambiance.
I had a "Sweet N' Spicy Aloha" cocktail and enjoyed the combination of strawberry, chili peppers and
Tabasco. Kirsten got a Tonga Bar Mal Tai served up in a great mug.
Of course this wasn't the only place we stopped that night. We also went to the delightful bar Cafe 
Legal at Christiesgate 11. Like Garage, where all the metal bands were playing, we never miss
visiting there when we're in Bergen. I'm looking forward to making a visit to the Tonga Bar a tradition
too.
SWEET N' SPICY ALOHA
Cointreau
Lemon Juice
Strawberry
Fresh Chili
Tobasco
TONGA BAR MAI TAI
White Rum ("Room" on the menu)
Dark Rum ("Room" on the menu)
Orange
Pineapple
Orgeat
Grenadine 
It's a Brunost Party!
Aside from the traditional Geitost brown cheese I also discovered two more varieties of brown
Scandinavian whey cheese... Fløtemysost and Gudbrandsdalsost.
I'm seriously as excited as these girls on the package about these Norwegian brown cheeses! I
make this exact same expression *every time* I think about how great this stuff is!
Fløtemysost is a 100% cow's milk Brunost with a mild taste and bright color. Invented in a mountain
farm near Gålå, Norway by Anne Hov in 1863. Anne originally called this original brown cheese
Feitost ("Fat Cheese").
Gudbrandsdalsost is a 24% goat's milk and 76% cow's milk Brunost with a richer taste and a darker
caramel color. Gudbrandsdalsost is made in the Gudbrands Valley near Lillehammer.
In case you've lost your cheese notes - traditional Geitost is a 100% goat's milk Brunost which has
both a caramel-like flavor and also an intense, Chèvre-like taste. Sometimes referred to as Ekte
Geitost ("true goat's cheese").
I ended my first day in Bergen with Norwegian cheese and some Norwegian Aquavit. Or maybe it
was the next morning... it all gets a bit fuzzy when you're taste-testing aquavits and eating the best
cheese on the planet. 

The Sjofartsmuseum in Bergen, Norway.
We thought, perhaps, that there would be some more information on The Valkyrien and its
historically tragic trip from Bergen, Norway in 1873 to be found here at the Bergen Maritime
Museum. But no such luck.
Although this was a pretty great museum!
Bergen, Norway Day Two. 

Henrik Ibsen statue in Bergen, Norway.
Like Oslo, Bergen has no small amount of fantastic statues all over the city. But this was definitely my favorite
one we saw on this trip!
Henrik Ibsen is a famous Norwegian playwright, known for The Wild Duck (1884), Emperor and Galilean
(1873), and Peer Gynt (1867) among many others. According to my research, Ibsen is apparently the most
frequently performed dramatist in the world after Shakespeare.
I love the slightly crazed look Ibsen has here (and those insane muttonchops!) c/o sculptor Nils Raa.
In the background is the Bergen National Theatre (Den Nationale Scene), Norway’s oldest permanent theatre
which was founded in 1850 by the Norwegian violinist Ole Bull.
 

The Baker Brun Bakery has been open at this location since 1893. The home of the world-famous
Norwegian cinnamon bun Skillingsbolle (pronounced "schillinsbolleh").
Of course the cinnamon bun’s original origin is hotly debated among historians and connoisseurs
alike. This Norwegian variation was first developed right here by Ferdinand Brun in the 1890s and
differs slightly from Swedish variations Kanelbulle (and the giant sized Hagabullar), Finnish
variations Bostonkakku, and German variations Franzbrötchen.
Norwegian Skillingsbolle have that special something that makes them unique, ground cardamom in
the dough and sprinkled granulated sugar on top.
The Baker Brun had huge enthusiastic groups going in and out carrying these so we had to get one
straight out of the Brun family oven. It definitely did not disappoint.
Here's a recipe for traditional Norwegian Skillingsbolle from Norwegian baker Morton Schakenda,
who runs the Bakeriet i Lom in Lom, Norway.
https://transplantedbaker.typepad.com/the_transplanted_baker/2011/04/skillingsboller-schilling-buns.html
Renaissance Festival @ Bryggen Bergenhus Fortress
Right next door to our hotel was the Bryggen Bergenhus Fortress ... and they were having a
Renaissance Festival. This was probably one of the best places to have a Renaissance Faire ever,
inside an ancient Norwegian castle. How funny.
We saw sword fighting, jewelry making, horseback racing and watched this band. I'm pretty sure I
also got a meat pie.
The Valkyrien at Festningskai dock at Bryggen Bergen Warf, Norway in 1873.
That same Festningskai dock at Bryggen Bergen Warf, Norway in 2016. 
I was so excited to get this photo. 

St. John's Church. Bergen, Norway
Built in 1893, St. John's Church (Norwegian: Johanneskirken) stands majestically over the city of
Bergen. Over 200 feet high, about 4 1/2 times as tall as the highest section of the Great Wall of
China.
The church's famous 183 key three-manual organ was built by Schlag and Söhne of Wurttemberg,
rebuilt by JH Jøgensen in 1967 and restored by Christian Scheffler Orgelwerkstaff in 1999. This
organ is played often, including a summer series of organ recitals by famous players and even a
student showcase.
Other concerts are held in the church, usually the type of thing you'd expect, but occassionally things
you wouldn't... like San Francisco electronic / glitch band Matmos in 2009! Crazy!
We didn't go inside this church but after seeing photos of the interior and the alter by Bergen painter
Marcus Grønvold I wish we had!
A couple interior photos of this stunning church:http://bergendomkirke.no/om/kirkenevare/johanneskirken/
Outdoor drone footage: https://youtu.be/rAzg1ZuZyeo
Super talented kids playing the famous Johanneskirken organ: https://youtu.be/lQQSoI8gqLY
Black Metal in Bergen, Norway.
Beyond The Gates Metal Fest @ Garage.
This flyer for the famous four-day black metal festival was hanging in the window of renowned metal
bar Garage. What a great bar! Garage has a huge shrine to Lemmy from Motörhead so you know
I'm definitely a big fan of that place.
The 2016 Beyond The Gates festival featured metal gods Venom Inc (Mantas + Abaddon +
Demolition Man) and Gaahls Wyrd, fronted by the legendary Gaahl and playing a special set
consisting solely of songs from his pre-Gorgoroth band Trelldom.
Gaahl’s Wyrd (Sunnfjord, Norway)
Venom Inc. (Newcastle, England)
Deströyer 666 (Melbourne, Australia)
Secrets of the Moon (Osnabrück, Germany)
Degial (Uppsala, Sweden)
Gravdal (Bergen, Norway)
Black Anvil (New York, USA)
Infernal War (Częstochowa, Poland) 
Sortilegia (Toronto, Canada)
The Spirit Cabinet (Asten, Netherlands)
Magister Templi (Oslo, Norway)
Saturnalia Temple (Stockholm, Sweden)
Gehennah (Forshaga, Sweden)
Nekromantheon (Kolbotn, Norway)
Malthusian (Dublin, Ireland)
Sahg (Bergen, Norway)
Black Magic (Leikanger, Norway)
Ritual Death (Trondheim, Norway)
Reptilian (Fusa, Norway)
NettleCarrier (Oslo, Norway) 

Fall of Summer 2016 metal festival in France!
This was a huge extreme metal festival just a short train ride from Paris, France... pretty cool to see
a poster all the way here in Bergen, Norway for it! This was also in the window of Bergen's legendary
rock club Garage.
Fall of Summer 2016 was a massive festival and later versions of this poster are just mind-bogglingly
crammed with band logos, including bands like Satyricon, Unleashed, Paradise Lost and Goblin. But
the ones we have here are:
Exciter (Ottawa, Canada)
Revenge (Alberta, Canada)
Nifelheim (Dals Långed, Sweden)
Dead Congregation (Athens, Greece)
Manilla Road (Wichita, Kansas, US)
Grim Reaper (Swindon, England)
Hell Militia (Paris, France)
Abigail (Tokyo, Japan) 

The Pingvinen!
We went and had lunch at the super quaint local spot, Pingvinen (The Penguin). They serve
traditional Norwegian food here and we heard they might be a good place to find more Norwegian
Aquavits. They were!
On my trips I often will take photos of signs like these that I cannot read and then later will
painstakingly transcribe them into Google Translate so I can know what they say. Sometimes I don't
realize until I am done typing everything in that the English translation is already right there on the
sign itself! (laugh)
Such is the case with this sign. For those of you who do not read Norwegian (like me) you can either
read the bottom of the sign or you can also check out what Google Translate told me after I typed
everything in.
"With us you will find a wide selection of short and long-distance drinks for fun and benefit. Everyday
a party.
From the kitchen comes small and large dishes based on traditional Norwegian ingredients and
recipes.
We make good coffee and bake cake every day!" 

At the Pingvinen in Bergen, Norway
The Pingvinen is a fantastic little eatery serving up traditional Norwegian food, Norwegian beers and
also some great Norwegian Aquavit. While my dad went to take a nap Kirsten and I went to the
Pingvinen for lunch.
Here's what Google Translate tells me those signs say.
"Take smile Hefeweizen"
And on that chalkboard...
"Pick fish"
"Jølster trout"
"Lamb and Rams" 

More aquavit at Pingvinen!
Bergen Aquavit 1818 is made by master distiller Halvor Heuch. Somewhere I have tasting notes
from this day but haven't been able to locate them.
My research on this bottle provided me with this fantastic translation: "Bergens Aquavit 1818 is
based on an old prescription from HR Martens Brenneri in Bergen." Well if this is what you're
prescribing, doc, sign me up! 

Gilde Non Plus Ultra Aquavit at the Pingvinen
The Glide Non Plus Ultra is a limited, 12 year aged, in hand-numbered bottles. This was the gold
medal winner at the 2015 IWSC International Wine & Spirits Competition. At twelve years, is the
longest aged aquavit in all of Norway. Uniquely it is aged in sherrywood barrels and has a strong
sherry, vanilla and oak influence as a result.
I cannot recommend a visit to The Pingvinen more highly for folks visiting Bergen who are looking for
fantastic Norwegian food and/or some great Norwegian Aquavits. The staff was a total delight.
A couple more beverages at the Pingvinen
Åkre Gard Edel Sider Frå Hardanger is a Norwegian Ice Cider
Krönleins A Lonely Roscoe Alcoholic Ginger Beer 4.7% vol. from Halmstad, Sweden. 

Enhjørningen Fiskerestaurant sign
Back at the Bryggen warf. I don't remember why we didn't end up eating here at the Enhjørningen
(Unicorn) but we definitely went in and checked it out.
Enhjørningen Fiskerestaurant is Bergen's oldest seafood restaurant in the heart of the historic
Bryggen warf.
I really love the art on this sign. 

Enhjørningen Fiskerestaurant sign
How could I not include a photo of the Enhjørningen's *other* sign?!
For some historical context of these mythical creatures and Norway... here's an interesting article on
Erik The Red, Greenland and "the great Viking outlaw Unicorn Horn
Hoax" https://medium.com/@stevechatterton/when-vikings-cornered-the-market-on-unicorn-hornsd17a081043f5

Bryggeloftet & Stuene Restaurant
Although we didn't eat at the Enhjørningen we did here on the wharf at the fantastic Bryggeloftet &
Stuene Restaurant, overlooking the exact spot on the Festningskai dock at Bryggen Bergen Warf
where the Sime (Seim) family boarded the Valkyrien and sailed to America in 1873.
The Bryggeloftet & Stuene Restaurant has been serving traditional Norwegian food with "bergensk
gjestfrihet" (mountain hospitality) for over 100 years.
My notes tell me I got a delicious reindeer fillet. The perfect choice for my final night in Norway.
After dinner we were treated to the greatest full spectrum double rainbow I have ever seen in my
entire life. What a way to send us off, Norway! Hopefully my video for that uploaded, it was truly
spectacular.
Longboat Bar @ Sjøboden
Last night in Norway! And we went out with a bang at Sjøboden!
According to our friends at Google Translate "sjøboden" means "warehouse." 
The most hilariously (mis?)translated review I found for this place reads as follows: "A tragic place
for clown farmers from the city Os !!" (LAUGH)
We had 4 aquavits here, hand picked by the bartender. After seeing Kirsten and I taste testing
aquavit all trip my folks decided they wanted to try some too. They... found it... a bit strong! (laugh)
By this time in the trip everyone was exhausted and we were just living in the moment so we did not
write down what aquavit we had. (slaps head) Looks like we've got a great excuse to have to go
back and visit Sjøboden again!
Since this is the final night and one of the last photographs in this set (lots of videos to come), this is
probably where I should thank those of you who read all of this travelogue! The whole photoset
project kind of spiraled out of control, with me going off on weird research tangents. I had a blast
making it and getting all obsessive about details. Which, admittedly, got a bit much in this last
portion! Anyway, I hope you all enjoyed it.
The Two Villages of Seim
For those interested in more of my family history, I mapped both the villages of Seim from the port
town of Bergen, Norway. The Eastern village of Seim on the right is where my family is from. The
Western village of Seim is where Siri Dalehaug (the owner of the Skjolden Hotel) has family from.
My grandparents visited Norway sometime in the 1980s and near Bergen they saw a road sign for
that Western village of Seim. Which was the closest (as far as I am aware) that any member of my
family had ever gotten to our ancestral home.
Western Seim is where those previous photos are from. The only sign we saw for that Seim was in 
Årdalstangen and it was for "Seimsdalen" which is the entire valley of Seim. That Eastern Seim. my
family's true ancestral home, is too small to get an actual sign.
Bakka, NorwayThis adorable little fjord town of Bakka sits on the western shore of the Nærøyfjord,
just a short distance (3 miles) from Gudvangen. Bakka means "on the hill" which is a pretty cute
name for this adorable little town. The church here was built in 1859. It apparently has a pretty grim
history but I couldn't find any info online... if you go there and find out please let me know!
For whatever reason Facebook moved these videos from earlier in the set to wherever they are in
this set now. And doesn't seem to have a way for me to move them back to where they're supposed
to be. So my apologies this video portion of my photoset are a bit out of order.
Bakka, NorwayThe town of Bakka sits right at the bottom of the Tuftefossen waterfall which starts at
the Tufteelvi river, fed by several lakes on the Vardafjellet (way way up there at 4822 feet above sea
level), and ends here in the Næroyfjord.
The Tuftefossen waterfall crashes down from a total height of 2230 feet, that's almost half a mile!
Fog on the Næroyfjord
This foggy footage is the perfect ambiance to to discuss three more mythological creatures of Norway that can
be found along the Næroyfjord.
Nøkken - This terrifying male creature with a mouth full of razor sharp teeth dwells in rivers, ponds and lakes.
They are especially powerful after sunset. A shape-shifter, they are known to appear as a stunning white horse,
a handsome young harp player, and even a floating tree trunk or wooden boat. Of course all of this is to help
the Nøkken lure hapless victims into deep water to drown and devour them. Spitting and then throwing a steel
needle or cross into the water, and uttering a riddle for protection which includes the creatures name, will
banish the Nøkken. For your travels this is the riddle of protection: "Nøkken! Nøkken! Needle in water. Virgin
Mary tossed steel into the water! You are sinking I am floating!"
Ratatoskr - These mischievous mythic squirrels are known as troublemakers and for fueling spiteful
relationships. And yet they have an important role in Norse Cosmology because they are the messengers of the
Gods, runningup and down the world tree Yggdrasil with messages between the eagle and the hawk
Veðrfölnir, perched atop Yggdrasil, and the dragon Níðhöggr, who dwells beneath one of the three roots of the
tree. Ratatoskr means “drill-tooth” or “bore-tooth."
Draugar - The Draugar are undead corpses brought back to life and reanimated by the force of their own
personal will. They are always surrounded by the unmistakable stench of decay. Both land and water versions
live in their graves, often guarding treasure or existing to wreak havoc on living beings, or torment those who
had wronged them in life.
One more just for good measure...
The Origin of the Næroyfjord - According to Anita Yasuda's EXPLORE NORSE MYTHS book, an ancient
legend tells of magical creatures using Mount Beitelen to carve the Næroyfjord. This is the first I've heard of
this legend so clearly more research on this is required. Beitel means "chisel."
Sognefjord to the Næroyfjord
More footage of our ferry ride along the Sognefjord to the Næroyfjord. 
As Facebook has decided to shuffle up my videos this one was actually filmed before the others in this set, and
is part of the Sognefjord just before the Næroyfjord.
The Sognefjord is Norway's longest and deepest fjord, extending all the way from the coast near Bergen all the
way to the vast mountains of the Jotunheimen at Skjolden. At its deepest, Sognefjorden plunges more than
4,265 feet deep and the mountains along the fjord rise to more than 5,570 feet.
The narrowest and best known of the many arms of the Sognefjord, the Næroyfjord is famous for steep
mountainsides, hanging valleys, towering peaks, snowfields, and hundreds of waterfalls everywhere you look.
Just past Amlabukti Bay on the SognefjordThis is from the beginning of our ferry ride, just off
shore from Kaupanger in Amlabukti Bay.
The nearby town of Amla, Norway has a webcam
here: https://www.webcams.travel/webcam/1479854583-amla-r5-mannheller-ferjekai
We'd just had a quick little rainfall and some great rainbows over the fjord but I didn't have my
camera out and I missed them.
Bøyabreen glacier at Fjærland, Norway.
This place was amazing! Æsir brings his rain as Frigga spins the clouds on her loom! Standing just above the
gorgeous Brævasshytta restaurant I shot this 360° panoramic shot of the Bøyabreen glacier and the view at
Fjærland. There are something like 30 waterfalls in this shot. I caught this footage as the rain lightened and the
clouds were descending over the mountains upon the valley. Within minutes this entire view was completely
obliterated as the white clouds took over the entire valley. By the time we were done with our lunch, the clouds
had retreated and it was all back again. In a country filled with majestic sights this was definitely one of the
most awe-inspiring. Truly epic in epicness.
The giant windows of the Brævasshytta Cafeteria overlooking the Bøyabreen glacier make this spot one of the
most beautiful lunchtime views on Earth. More here: https://www.facebook.com/brevasshytta
For those of you who like a little Norwegian metal, here's some appropriately epic, doom-y, Norwegian metal
from Trondheim's The 3rd and the Mortal to go with your watching: http://youtu.be/ijxu3XSS1Mw
Sheep Stampede on the Tindevegen.This footage is from back at the Tindevegen in the Jotunheimen
Mountains. Norway. I only managed to catch about half of this stampede, and there were a lot more to come, it
seemed to go on forever! Lots of laughing as these cuties charged across the only road that goes through this
area.
I'm no sheep expert but I believe this breed are the Spælsau, the famous Old Norwegian Short Tail Sheep, that
were saved from extinction in the 1970s and are now a common sight once again. (Norway is magical)
If you want to get to know some of Norway's sheep, check out the biographies and the #sheepwithaview map
here:
https://www.visitnorway.com/sheepwithaview/
Avdalsfossen Waterfall, Utladalen. Norway.Witness the Utla River and also the 567 foot high
Avdalsfossen Waterfall! 
When we were first planning this trip to Norway I got it into my head that we should stay up at
Avdalen Gård Farm which is at the very top of this waterfall. All the way up there! That idea was just
kind of crazy to be doing on this trip because it would mean a several mile and very steep hike each
way to even get to the car. But someday I hope to visit the Avdalen Gård Farm, It may may very well
have the single the greatest view on Earth. Wait'll you see these photos and videos:
Avdalen Gård Farm: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avdalen
View of Avdalsfossen from Avdalen Gård Farm:https://youtu.be/gDeuLHIQ01E
Descent to Øvre Årdal, Norway.
It's very exciting to be this close to where my Great, Great Grandparents and their kids (Great Grandpa Sime)
originally came from!
Enjoy these fantastic mountain road switchbacks from out the front window on the descent to Øvre Årdal from
high up in the Jotunheimen Mountains. This is Utladalen, Norway's deepest valley. We'll soon be on the
Årdalsfjorden, where the village of Seim is located.
In this footage you can really see how tight these roads are. We literally had to pull over to let the
*motorcycles* squeeze by. And look at how far on the edge of the road they had to go to do it.
While it's impossible to really see how steep this grade is (up to 12.5% is some places) but on our way back
through here (going *up* that time) a camper truck in front of us was literally spinning tires and sliding
backwards towards us on some of these turns. Very scary.
Urnes Stave Church, Norway.
Hastily-filmed shaky-cam footage of the outside of Urnes Stave Church (built around 1130 AD). You can see
our Fortidsminneforeningen guide showing my folks and Kirsten the detailed carvings on the side of the
church, which date back to 1070 AD, and define the "Urnes style" which is equally influenced by Viking art
and The Book of Kells.
There is a *lot* of controversy about what these carvings symbolize. A WORLD HISTORY OF
ARCHITECTURE (2003) suggests the carvings are intertwined snakes and dragons representing the end of the
world according to the Norse legend of Ragnarök. Still others believe the bottom carving is of a lion,
symbolizing Christ, fighting the evil serpent Satan.
More info on Urnes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urnes_Stave_Church
Urnes Stave Church, Norway.
This is a *very* rare, very quick video walk-through of the Urnes Stave Church. You can see how detailed the
carvings are inside this oldest stave church on Earth (1132 AD).
In fact, when filming, I was not aware of how rare this occasion would be! Fortidsminneforeningen, the
Society for the Preservation of Norwegian Ancient Monuments, supposedly forbids photographs for purposes
other than research from being taken inside Urnes. I was not aware of this until very recently (otherwise I
certainly would not have asked). Fortunately I was politely given permission to film this quick walkthrough, as
long as it was quick. As you can see I was a *very* quick!
Also a research group had taken over the church and we were fortunate to have arrived just before they closed
to the public. The gentleman in the video literally locked the door behind me. 
So I consider myself extra lucky to have gotten this footage for you guys! I hope you enjoy it.
More info on Urnes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urnes_Stave_Church
Hjellefossen Waterfall, Utladalen, Norway.Norway is home to some of the tallest, most
magnificent waterfalls on Earth, and the spectacular Hjellefossen Waterfall is definitely one of the
best. There are *so many* waterfalls in this part of Norway that you have to completely redefine your
definition of what "impressive" is. The Hjellefossen is right off the Utladalsvegen road (no hiking
required) and here the Hjelledola-Utla river drops a full 1,197 feet. "Hjelle" is from the Old Norse
word hjalli meaning "ledge".
Standing at the bottom of this I can tell you that the Hjellefossen ROARS.
Tindevegen in the Jotunheimen Mountains. Norway.
Jotunheimen translates to "home of the Jötnar"... and as you'll remember from our aquavit tasting, Jötnar are a
mythological race of giants that live in Jötunheimr, one of the Nine Worlds of Norse cosmology. And the
breath-taking views as can be seen here on the Tindevegen in the Jotunheimen Mountains will definitely make
you a believer in those giant trolls and mythical Nine Worlds.
The steep and narrow Tindevegen is the highest mountain pass in all of Northern Europe, a 20 mile snake-like
mountain road, among the beautiful mountain summits (which at least feel like they are) high above the world
of Midgard far below.
One of the most awe-inspiring roads on Earth, the Tindevegen reaches 4,347 feet above sea level, over an 11-
mile climb with sections at 12.5% grade and an average of 7.3%. This mountain pass is only open from May to
November each year, as mighty mountain snows make this route impossible for much of the year. According
to Norwegian myth, the most extreme snowfall is expected during Fimbulwinter, the "mighty winter" that is
the immediate prelude to the events of Ragnarök, the end of the world.
More on the Tindevegen here: http://www.dangerousroads.org/europe/norway/6092-tindevegen.html
Above the Clouds. Sognefjellsvegen pass, Norway.Ascending into the lands above the skies.
somewhere near Turtagrø, Norway, Continuing on Sognefjellsvegen pass heading up to the
Tindevegen, the highest mountain pass in all of Northern Europe, to Øvre Årdal on the other side.
Day six.
More info on the Sognefjellet: http://www.nasjonaleturistveger.no/en/routes/sognefjellet
Romantiske Vegen tunnel, Norway
There are a few tunnels on the Romantiske Vegen (the romantic road) but none as epic as this!
One lane wide. No lights, No reflectors. No end in sight.
Enjoy this white-knuckle journey through this tight, seemingly endless tunnel, which also happens to have a
cloud lurking within! Thankfully there wasn't a car coming from the other direction!
Not for the weak of heart. But don't worry, those oppressively ever-shrinking walls are just an optical illusion.
Trust me. 
Enjoy!
Romantiske Vegen, the "romantic road". Lusterfjord, Norway.Driving the "romantic road" to
Urnes in a light rain. You can get an idea how narrow this road is. Here we pass the farm where
Kroken Frukt og Bær organic juices and jams are made. They make juices out of locally-picked
Rhubarb, Gooseberries, Raspberries, Blueberries, and apples. There are few things in life better
than a bottle of their amazing uncarbonated Rhubarb soda!
More about the farm & museum:http://en.sognefjord.no/things-to-do/the-juice-house-museum-sorheimluster-p832823
More about the juices / jams the make (in Norwegian): www.haukadal.no
Hopperstad Stavkyrkje in Vik, Norway.Explore with me the Hopperstad Stavkyrkje in Vik, Norway
built around 1130 AD!
Since there wasn't any fellow tourists around except us, I decided to film a little walk-through video
for you guys.
Where EMPIRE STRIKES BACK was filmed.Snowspeeders, AT-AT Walkers, Echo Base...
welcome to the Battle of Hoth! Finse, Norway is the tiny mountain village where the greatest STAR
WARS movie of all, THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK, was filmed. If you ever wanted to stand on the
exact spot where Han Solo cut open a dead Tauntaun's stomach to save Luke Skywalker's life... this
is it!
At 4,009 feet above sea level, Finse is the highest train station in all of Norway. And to get here you
will have to take the train. Because there simply are no roads to Finse.
Read all about STAR WARS filming locations, artifacts and where to stay in Finse
on StarWars.comhere: http://www.starwars.com/news/galactic-backpacking-visiting-real-world-hoth
Lonely farmhouse near Ål, Norway.A short video outside the Bergensbanen train window.
Extreme black metal / viking metal band Disintegration hails from Ål, and is supposed to have
recorded their music in a tiny farmhouse just like this one.
Check out Disintegration's song "Nattemørket" and others
here: https://disintegrationband.bandcamp.com/track/nattem-rket
Double Rainbow over Bryggen Warf in Bergen, NorwayWhat an amazing end to our epic trip to
Norway and visit to the Sime (Seim) family homeland! On our very last night we saw this mindblowing full-spectrum double rainbow over Bryggen Warf. This is the brightest rainbow(s) I have ever
seen, they just lit up the sky. My iPhone footage just doesn't do justice to the spectacularness.
Thanks, Norway! 

I am always working on various musical projects. I like left-of-center music and weird bands that are heavily themed. I primarily play vintage analog synthesizers. But also dabble in old drum machines, caveman bass and electric guitar, my great grandfather's violin from 1889, and also some turn-of-the-century acid house software on a 1999 G3 iMac. So if you think you'd like to hear my music in the genres of "space rock" or "sleazy 90s industrial" or 'synth-glam" or "Belgian New Beat" or "orgone noise" or other audio hallucinogenres click on the images / links to hear these projects.

BE AWARE: As audio files tend to be quite large, you'll definitely want a 56K modem (or better) paired with a fast internet connection of at least 280kbps (or better) to listen to this music.

LEATHER NOT PLEATHER, sleazy 90's industrial just the way you like it, baby. Featuring blistering vocals by Portland crustpunk / grindcore legend August Alston.

11-song debut album out on Compact Disc, Cassette and digitally.

Plus 2-song "Strip!" EP on 3" CD Single + 4-song "The Raw Mixes" EP on 3" CD Single + 2-song "Dance Sexy" EP of Ravaged Audio Mixes on 3.5" Floppy Disk. November 17th 2021.

Listen to more LEATHER NOT PLEATHER here.

Dead Like Me
From the LP "It's a Sick World But Someone's Gotta Love It"

Sex Target Sex
From the LP "It's a Sick World But Someone's Gotta Love It"

Body Hard
From the LP "It's a Sick World But Someone's Gotta Love It"

Gets You Off
From the LP "It's a Sick World But Someone's Gotta Love It"

Strip!
From the EP "Strip"

SPACE MONSTERS, a minimal / hypnotic space rock instrumental duo from a parallel-Earth's 1997. Featuring Josh Krause (drummer) and myself (synths) of SPACE STATION.

The third SPACE MONSTERS release, "Out of the Atomfire" arrives X-Day 2022 July 5th at 7am Malmo, Sweden time. With bonus tracks at 7am in London, New York, Madison and San Francisco.

Listen to more SPACE MONSTERS here.

I, Automata
From the EP "It Happened Tomorrow"

By The Light of a Dying Star
From the EP "Raiders of the Solar Frontier"

The Pleasure Saucers
From the album "Out of the Atomfire" released July 5th 2022.

Spaceway
From the album "Out of the Atomfire" released July 5th 2022.

CASUALTIES OF PSYCHIC DISASTERS, experimental electronic noise damage to attune Orgone Particle Conversion. Recorded live inside a quantum well, 2012. Released in a perpendicular nildimensional space.

Listen to more here.

Influence of the Pyramidic Field
From the LP "DOR -> POR"

Flight of the Extrasensorite
From the LP "DOR -> POR"

DEADTECH, fresh new New Beat tunes and video toaster hallucinogenics, hand crafted in the traditional manner, for your 1988-1989 Belgian nightclub. The Belgian experience, as filtered through the 80's American midwest, and crash-landing 30 years later in San Francisco, California. Featuring Chuck Nicklow on VHS video orgasmica.

The 6-song LP (Not actually remixes) released on December 31st 2021. Videos on YouTube in 2022.

More DEADTECH here.

Bass Dvice - In A Moment (DEADTECH mix)
From the LP "Everything Old Is New Beat Again" out December 31st 2021.

Hypno Hustlers - Am I Too Much For You, Mister Franklin? (DEADTECH mix)
From the LP "Everything Old Is New Beat Again" out December 31st 2021.

The Wisdom Alliance - Mai The Psychic Girl (DEADTECH Mix)
From the LP "Everything Old Is New Beat Again" out December 31st 2021.

(Updates from the Webmaster)

July 5th, 2022
Out of the Atomfire

New album launched for X-Day for everyone to listen to on our Pleasure Saucer rides outta here! Here it is, "SPACE MONSTERS "Out of the Atomfire", at long last! Thanks to fellow band member Joshua Krause for his thunderous drum beats and endless enthusiasm. And to our special guest star AstroBabe for gracing us with her powerfully rumbling bass lines and her otherworldly cosmic space vocals. But wait. No saucers again?! It looks like 1998 is actually *next* year instead (sigh)! Hm... that gives me a whole year to plan? And another improbable idea is already forming... but first, sleep.

July 4th, 2022
Tomorrow Comes Today

SPACE MONSTERS new X-Day inspired album "Out of the Atomfire" launched in Malmo, Sweden today at 7am. Tomorrow for me! I'll be up all night doing the releases at those various 7ams. 10pm (Malmo), 11pm (London), 4am (London), 5am (Madison), 7am (San Francisco). Gonna be a long night of grinding it out. In other news I upgraded with a repro of a classic for my bootleg garage mini Space Port Arcade.

July 2nd, 2022
Cover Finished & Album Announced

After several days of pounding my head against the computer screen, struggling to learn Gimp while on a tight deadline, and restarting the SPACE MONSTERS cover art from scratch several times... at last I have a cover drawn that I like and have the album announced. We still need to get AstroBabe's vocals recorded and final mixes done this weekend.

June 30th, 2022
Har Har, "Bob"

I need to get the SPACE MONSTERS album cover drawn (medium: digital PS, Polygonal Lasso Tool & layers) before July 5th but my old school 2015 free Photoshop from Adobe is dead. I re-signed up for a year of the Photoshop subscription service before remembering that my ancient computer can't run the modern version. So it looks like I'll be having to learn Gimp image editing software and doing what I can on Photoshop on my recording studio computer at home in the wee hours of the night. Time is so tight! (laugh) Gotta have a chuckle about it, tho. Good one, "Bob!"

June 28th, 2022
There Is No Try

I'm finally back to working my job at last! Now I have to draw the SPACE MONSTERS "Out Of The Atomfire" album cover, announce the release, build my lists of SubGenii to send the album to at their various versions of 7am, get our AstroBabe 8x10s printed and signed, and sometime this week we also need to record AstroBabe's vocals. Also I have so many push-ups and sit-ups to make up from the two weeks I was out sick. "Do... or do not. There is no try." -Yoda

June 27th, 2022
Buzzing!

What a tremendous day for my music! Somehow I did it again (fueled by another sketchy, off-tasting, Zima Clearmalt) writing and recording the final SPACE MONSTERS song, "Goodbye Earth" to be released at 7am in San Francisco on X-Day, July 5th 2022, just as the Pleasure Saucers arrive. Huge day! Today we also recorded all of AstroBabe's thunderous bass lines for "The Pleasure Saucers," "The Arrival," and "Goodbye Earth." Buzzing on the total high. This album is going to be so good.

June 26th, 2022
"The Arrival"

Feeling healthy for the first time in two weeks & my morning Covid test is just a very faint line today. What better way to celebrate it than with writing another new song for SPACE MONSTERS?! "The Arrival" is built on the most crazy chaotic and outrageous drum track Josh Krause has ever sent me (Brazilian inspired?). It is totally insane. I honestly didn't know if it was even possible for me to work with. But I had to try. Today my brain just clicked into Right Brain Flow State and I lost all sense of time and space. And "The Arrival" was born. Dark and unsettling cosmic Lovecraftian space horror. And a rough prototype for the "Goodbye Earth" song too.

June 22nd, 2022
Children Of The Revolution

HOLOGLAM's superstar frontperson / lead singer Cherry Cosmic writes to say "Having fun tinkering with these Hologlam songs! Hoping to have something for you to look at by the first week of July." Excellent! Now I just have to get through this plague, get my SPACE MONSTERS album finished and released, and we can take this Synth-Glam project to the next (glorious) step. Very exciting!

June 19th, 2022
Close Encounters Of The Erotic Kind

Unfortunately I picked up the Covid plague flying home from my dad's birthday (thankfully it was on my way home!) and so I've been out of work and sleeping something like 20 hours a day for the last 5 days. That definitely doesn't help with a SPACE MONSTERS album deadline looming & three songs to write and record before X-Day July 5th! But today I recorded the first of this new batch of songs, called "The Pleasure Saucers." The pressure was on as I knew this is perhaps the most important track of the entire album as it will debut at 7am (when the Pleasure Saucers arrive!) during the SubGenius X-Day Devival in New York. I popped the top on a Zima I've been hoarding from the 2018 re-release (my drummer's favorite drink, we swilled these all of the time in the mid-90s when they were on clearance). It tasted a bit off. That's probably a bad idea to drink. But I drank it anyway. With the clearmalt coursing through my veins and my drummer blasting beats into my ears, I turned on the synths and Logic Pro. And... Success! I *love* it! SPACE MONSTERS heaviest of heavy space doom songs ever. Hopefully I can get the Covid kicked, the other songs finished, and the cover(s?) drawn in time.

June 12th, 2022
90 Years Young

Today is my dad's 90th birthday party. To get to see my old man burning up the country western dancefloor for hours at the VFW at *90 years old* is really incredible. Totally awe inspiring.

June 8th, 2022
HOLOGLAM

Introducing HOLOGLAM, our new synth-glam band, featuring Jimmi Nova (guitars, synths, programming), K-Rae (space bass), and superstar lead singer Cherry Cosmic (vocals)! Are you ready to do a line of straight stardust off the dashboard of your space capsule and hit the floors of the cosmic discotheques? We are!

June 6th, 2022
New Song Completed!

After a particularly arduous weekend of grinding away in my music studio the first instrumental of our new synth-glam songs is completed. Jimmi Nova and K-Rae on bass. What an awesome new ass-moving song! Now I just have to finish that other song I'm working on and the band can vote on the band name at long last. We should have that second song send to our singer this week...

June 5th, 2022
All Day And All Of The Night

Another weekend in the recording studio again. Making progress. Also I (finally) went out and took photos of rusty sheets of ruined metal to use as background textures for my GAMMA WORLD website. Now I just gotta fill out all those custom character sheets and put the site together. Unless society collapses and we fall into an *actual* post apocalypse in the next couple weeks that should be launching in July.

June 1st, 2022
21st Birthday Today

Today is the 21st anniversary of my longest-running and most insane art project of them all, Isotope - the comic book lounge! Happy birthday, baby.

May 31st, 2022
Ultracore Slackmode

The SPACE MONSTERS July album release schedule is tight, the workload is huge. We have two of the six songs ready to release. But that leaves four more to compose and record in a short window of time. I wrote in my journal that I was going to fully lean into the madness and just trust that a lifetime of Unlimited Slack was all I would need to get this all finished in time. It was time to go Ultracore Slackmode. And then right after that, as if a gift from the cosmos, I discovered a third finished and yet-unreleased SPACE MONSTERS tune on a hard drive. Slack is real, my friends.

May 28th, 2022
Night Of The Living DEADTECH

VJ Convex of DEADTECH fame stopped in today and said he was still excited about the whole project and eager to get started on his half of the venture. Alright, let's get this monster out of that temporary grave and back on it's feet! That's four of my band projects back into current active development (with two more getting set up).

May 26th, 2022
Three Year Plan

Doing things "by half" is not my personality but doing things all the way *plus* an extra half? That's me all over. If the Pleasure Saucers don't make it next month, this is my mad three-year plan I'm working on with SPACE MONSTERS drummer Josh Krause - X-Day 2022 is SPACE MONSTERS with Special Guest Star AstroBabe from early 2000s space rock band LUST IN SPACE! X-Day 2023 is SPACE MONSTERS / LUST IN SPACE double-album! With a full-on reunion of the epic SubGenius band LUST IN SPACE with AstroBabe, Z'Ma, Slip Stevens, and E-Bot! And on the 2023 SPACE MONSTERS album is the very special guest superstar Alex Station from the legendary 90s band of cosmic rockstars, SPACE STATION! X-Day 2024 is a triple album release of SPACE MONSTERS fifth album, LUST IN SPACE second album, and the never-thought-you'd-see-this-in-your-lifetime reunion of space rock band of extraterrestrial boy toy delinquents - Alex Station, Josh Station, James Station and their bitter robotic nanny SLAVEBOT - of the greatest 90s space rock band of them all, SPACE STATION!

May 25th, 2022
7am World Tour

Here's the itinerary for next month's SPACE MONSTERS worldwide album release "tour" with bonus tracks and an ever-evolving cover. #1. 7am in Malmo, Sweden. #2. 7am in London, England. #3. 7am in Starwood, New York. #4. 7am in Madison, Wisconsin. #5. 7am in San Francisco, California.

May 24th, 2022
Baby's On Fire

Every time I take a hit on the Web2.0 addiction pipe I am reminded of this Brian Eno song and that SPACE MONSTERS songs have always been envisioned as being "created as human society crumbles" - hey man, no better time than the present, y'know? Baby's on Fire.

May 23rd, 2022
Razor Keen & Good Again

Schemes, if you know what I mean. Joshua Krause is hammering the deadskins in his cave for the new SPACE MONSTERS album (out July 5th 2022 at exactly the moment the Pleasure Saucers arrive, 7am, starting in Malmo, Sweden). August Alston is huddled on the floor by the toilet in some Portland bathroom crafting filthy lyrics for the new LEATHER NOT PLEATHER album. And I'm back into the Sanctum Synthtorum bleeding on my La Baye 2x4 guitar again working my hands raw against my creative bounaries on the first songs for (insert new synth-glam band name here). The pace is break-neck but I wouldn't have it any other way. In the spare minutes I also started inking my Clea fan art today.

May 21st, 2022
Calling Occupants Of Interplanetary Craft

I've been obsessed with the Klaatu (and Carpenters cover) World Contact Day song for days. Which has, in turn, inspired the idea to release the new SPACE MONSTERS album on the Subgenius UFO Contact Day, X-Day 2022 July 5th. I wrote to drummer Joshua Krause and laid out the mad plan to release this next album at the precice moment of X-Day Rupture to celebrate the arrival of the Alien Sex Goddesses' long awaited Pleasure Saucers. And featuring a guest star appearance from LUST IN SPACE and beloved Subgenius calendar girl, AstroBabe! We'll be releasing and re-releasing this new album on X-Day as the 7am Xist Rupture Wave crosses the globe, starting with Z-Ma's timezone in Malmo, Sweden up through San Francisco, California nine hours later as we each get picked up by our escape vessel / cosmic orgy ride out of here. The Subgenius Contact Day is this year for sure!

May 19th, 2022
Clea, Sorcerer Supreme

Created by Steve Ditko and Stan Lee, Clea first appeared in the dawn of the Marvel Universe in STRANGE TALES #126 (1964). As a character she's been pretty ignored by the company. Never in all her 58 years has she ever had her own series, or even a one-shot. But she's been getting some attention recently. She has a new series called STRANGE, and um... (spoiler warning!) this too (spoiler warning!). But these modern interpretations are all missing Clea's gorgeous and classic Steve Ditko designed Dark Dimensional hair. So I did some fan art of her today to rectify that. Hope you like it!

May 18th, 2022
The Man Is Back In The Harness

LEATHER NOT PLEATHER's signer August Alston has begun work in earnest on our second album. I have a couple songs to finish up still, the album track "Get In The Box," an EP-only song for a concurrent CD3 single release, and our traditional super-secret physical-edition-only-bonus-track cover song. This second album is on pace for a November(?) release again.

May 16th, 2022
Sweating Out The Synth-Glam In The Studio

Spent most of the day banging away in the studio recording awesome music for my new Synth-Glam project. I have 4 jamming tunes in various stages of finishedness. And I'm really proud of it all. Hope to finish them soon! I also got a vintage Muntz 8-Track player for the Mustang to play these new 1970s inspired tunes on.

May 12th, 2022
New Mutants

My Synth-Glam band's singer, drag superstar Piranha, rolled up a GAMMA WORLD character for my upcoming tribute site a couple weeks back. Ik'it is a 13ft tall human-disliking mutant Tapir with an incredibly strong telepathic arm and a highly destructive "Trek Disintegration Bomb" black box. Today I drew Ik'it. I like how this character is equal parts menacing and adorable.

May 8th, 2022
Another Dumb Hobby

Today I started my latest dumb hobby. 8-Track tape restoration. Armed with a kit of new pads and sensing tape, case-opening videos by waukee321, lots of cleaning supplies, an aluminum audio splicing block, and razorblade in hand I spent the morning restoring my first three tapes.

May 7th, 2022
Let's Rock!

Rochelle Stone is the most famous superhero (and waitress!) in all of the Colorado Rockies. Here's her MARVEL MULTIVERSE ROLE PLAYING GAME character sheet side one and side two, here's her 80s Marvel Comics inspired superhero logo, and best of all here's the drawing I did of her (but still need to ink it). She's so cool. Meet Rochelle!

May 6th, 2022
Rock & Rochelle

Very exciting, I finished making my MARVEL MULTIVERSE ROLE PLAYING GAME character (Rochelle Stone aka Tectonic) today and began drawing her. Super happy with the results so far! Equally exciting, I had an early arrival of the 1978 vintage Realistic TR-80 8-Track Player/Recorder that I bought from Dan & Kathy Gibson, the nice folks at Kate's Track Shack. This is the machine that I'll be recording our eventual album on. Along with 8-Track Tape restoration supplies and a professional audio splicing block in swanky aircraft-grade aluminum (I picked up a few tapes at antique stores that I'll be refurbishing too). The Realistic TR-80 8-Track Player/Recorder includes "Custom Walnut Vinyl Veneer Cabinetry" it's a gas, man!

May 4th, 2022
Still Frying Neurons After All These Years

Ten Years Ago Today: Rolling Stone Magazine announced the comic convention I threw, MorrisonCon. My largest large-scale art project.

May 2nd, 2022
The Glamorous Life

We're down to just four band names for our awesome new Synth-Glam band to choose from. The contributions from everybody in this band are so great! I'd be thrilled to be in any of these. Next weekend I'm hermiting in my recording studio abd working on bringing our first songs to glorious glittery guitar-y synth-y life.

April 30th, 2022
Endless Barrage of Bullshit

"You've got to be on board with my endless barrage of dumb bullshits or I will drive you crazy!" We drove up to Portland to see my best friend since high school and LEATHER NOT PLEATHER singer August Alston. It was a sleepless hyperactive whirlwind visit, talking good old times, planning future good times, and plotting out our next album releases. We were having too much fun to even think to get a photo of us together (slaps head)!

April 27th, 2022
Marvel Multiverse Time

A good friend of mine did a bunch of behind-the-scenes work getting the new MARVEL MULTIVERSE ROLE PLAYING GAME launched this month. I asked him if he was going to run a game for us to play and he, probably jokingly, said "Uh... ok!" I bought a copy of the Playtest rules. And today I started working on my character. Inspired by all these 80s AVENGERS comics I've been reading lately, my fun-loving food server years in the 1990s, and 1940s bodybuilding icon Abbye "Pudgey" Stockton. Let's rock!

April 26th, 2022
More Cyberpunk Junk

Found myself a still-sealed Mac copy of 1996 cyberpunk full motion video CD-ROM game ANGEL DEVOID to play on my grape iMac G3 and write a review on for my HyperCard-fueled NEUROBLAST DISK ZINE. That was definitely $9.00 well spent.

April 25th, 2022
When The Sex Stars Align

After far too long I'm going to finally get to hang out with my LEATHER NOT PLEATHER collaborator and best friend since the 1980s, vocalist supreme August Alston, this weekend. Looking up "Aries Scorpio Alignment" on the internet, the first is this site that says "What is the compatibility between Aries and Scorpio? Despite being emotionally and intellectually incompatible, Aries and Scorpio are highly compatible in bed." and "These two signs come together powerfully when sex is involved, much like a nuclear reaction." Ha! You'd be hard-pressed to find more powerful exemplars of those zodiac signs on this Earth than August and I. And I appreciate how even people who have never met either us, or listened to our music, write slightly terrified sounding articles about our Astrologically-Determined Pure Sex Energy Nuclear Reaction. Best believe we'll be cranking up the heat on our new songs! And the next LNP album is going to be so white hot that it'll terrify even more famous Aquarian astrologers.

April 24th, 2022
Grevillia In Bloom

Always excited to have a new excuse to have to dress up and have fun with friends, this year we threw our first annual "Grevillia Garden Party" in honor of this crazy blooming Australian Grevillia Tree that lives in our front yard. The tree is 40 feet tall and covered in these gorgeous exotic flowers (beloved by the hummingbirds). We threw a little soiree to celebrate. Kirsten invented this fantastic Grevillia In Bloom Cocktail (Nikka Coffey Gin + Xicaru Silver Mezcal + Yellow Chartreuse + Seville Orange juice + an anti-float of Aperol). Lovely.

April 20th, 2022
Star Trackin' To The Beat

More work on the new album, slathering on the analog synthesizers in my synth-glam, to go with my poor man's wanna-be Ace Frehleying guitar riffing. This is going to be so good. I'm aiming for an album that will fit in your 8-Track collection between that first god-tier glam LP by SUPERNAUT, the 1979 space roller disco album that is Edward Dozier / John Henderson's LIGHTNING, the rough and ready rock and roll of KISS' 1974 debut, Australian minimal synth-pop STEREO's "Somewhere in the Night," and Ronco Records' killer 8-Track comp STAR TRACKIN' 76. Excited about releasing this eventual album on all the exoticly sexy appropriate formats.

April 19th, 2022
More Technical Research

Inspiration hits and I'm constantly researching the technical aspects in order to get the creative projects done I want to get done. Today is a research juggle between KTS Productions Manufacturing, EL84 Audio Tube Amps, and Group Size 24 (12 Volt/700 CCA) batteries with 480 Cold Cranking Amps.

April 17th, 2022
Happy National Mustang Day

Today we celebrate the 57th anniversary of the Ford Mustang in a favorite blue sharkskin suit. 10 year old me would be seriously excited to see who we grew up to be.

April 15th, 2022
Young, Dumb & Full Of It

Why didn't I think of this sooner? Inspired by Adam Ant's perpetually-inspirational 1990 non-hit anthem to bon vivantism "Young Dumb & Full of It," I'm going to start celebrating the birthdays of my alter egos on the days they were created. Jimmi Nova (March 24th, 2022), Orange Krush (July 22nd, 2017), Slip Stevens (?? ?? 1999). That's three extra birthday parties every year?! Yes. (grin) Yes it is.

April 14th, 2022
The Circle of Cyberpunk Life

Today I learned that Bruce Bethke, who first coined the term "cyberpunk" in his 1980 (published in 1983) short story of the same name was inspired by none other than Billy Idol to create his vapidly-stylish bleach-blonde loser-anarchist character Rayno! And a decade later Idol decided to get into cyberpunk culture but HE HAD NO IDEA of his contribution to the culture's origins. It sounds totally crazy but it's true, Bethke writes about it here! I've *got to* update the "Cyberpunk" page!

April 10th, 2022
Electric LaBaye 2x4 Land

Today I recorded the most ripping cockrock guitar tracks of my life! I play a LaBaye 2x4 but I'm not a guitar player. I'm such not-a-guitar-player that I was very resistant to *anyone* playing any guitars in many of my bands (SPACE STATION, AQUALAD, THE CONSENTING ADULTS), and as a teen I restrung the first $20 electric guitar I ever got with bass strings (Maggie, the B'guitar) for my first band, a noise group called BLOOD FECES. But playing synths in front of an audience sucks. And you can't have a glam band without pure unbridled sex, stylish sci-fi makeup, shiny vinyl boots, and trashy electric guitars! And today was all about those trashy cockrock guitars! So okay. I guess I *am* a guitar player after all.

April 9th, 2022
The Ballad of Jimmi Nova

After a traumatic life event a few years back, I had to rebuild a shattered psyche and re-learn who I was. This long and arduous process of self-restoration meant a lot of rediscovering who I had been and an intense re-embracement of many past selves. But, like the SIX MILLION DOLLAR MAN quote, "We can rebuild him. We have the technology. We can make him better than he was. Better, stronger, faster." It's an ongoing resto-mod. But it wasn't until this year that I started reclaiming old names I had left by the wayside years ago and started signing my artwork "Jamez" again. And today I reclaim another! I have this nifty new Synth-Glam band coming up, and all glamrock guitar / synth players have cool names, right? So what am I going to call myself? It hit me like a bolt from the stratosphere... Jimmi Nova.

April 5th, 2022
Housekeeping

Small updates on the site & recent entires.

April 2nd, 2022
Back On The Band Name Grind Again

We're going to need a *killer* band name for my new Synth-Glam band with Piranha and Kirsten. We started putting together ideas this weekend. For musical and sartorial inspiration I am immersing my brain in the work of Larry LaGaspi.

March 31st, 2022
SCRIPT FINISHED

Final & merciless edit of my script. Curated down every caption box and dialogue balloon so the writing is as sharp, fast, and powerful as possible. I imagined my writing was an electric guitar and I plugged that shit into a bit-crushed late-70s John Wagner fuzz pedal. And then I sent it off to Christian Ward. Ready to rock and roll!

March 30th, 2022
The Droids You've Been Looking For

Well, I'm pretty sure that today I finished my "The Asteroid of Misfit Droids" script for comics god Christian Ward to draw. I'll have to give it a spelling and grammar check after a nights sleep, and then have my editor Kirsten Baldock go over it, but... it feels like it is done! Yes!

March 28th, 2022
Silver And Sweat

Back in the studio again, recording tracks for our new Synth-Glam band. This is a whole new music genre for me, and I don't want to let Kirsten and Piranha down, so it will definitely not be easy recording these new tunes. For this project I'll be writing and playing more guitar than I usually do (guitar is not my forte, that's for sure!) in anticipation of axe-slinging at any potential live shows. All the band members are here in the Bay Area! By the end of my weekend I've got two potential songs started. Rocking that silver and working up a sweat.

March 25th, 2022
I Can FEEL It

After all this time I got my hands on the rarest Billy Idol "Cyberpunk" item of all shipped here to California from the UK. The unofficial bootleg white-label Billy Idol / The Overlords "Heroin" remix 12". The "Ionizer Dub Mix" was only available on this whitelabeled promo, and never released in any other capacity. I am both thrilled and also sad to have reached the end of this journey to collect *every single one* of Idol's 1993 remixes for this song. My turntable is loving it.

March 24th, 2022
Space Is The Place

This is the photo I sent to Piranha the singer of our newly-formed (but not yet named) Synth-Glam band to show some of the sci-fi equipment we'll be using to record our new music with. In red is my iconic Devo-esque La Baye 2X4 Guitar and in black is Kirsten's '84 vintage Cort/Steinberger B2 Headless "Space Bass." Get your afterburners ready.

March 17th, 2022
Mainlining Another Moonage Daydream

I had so much fun writing and recording music with Kirsten a couple weekends ago I decided we needed to launch a new band project for the two of us to do more. A Synth-Glam band! With our SF drag performer / theater artist / filmmaker / total rockstar friend Piranha to front our new band! Glam! Costumes! Make Up! Synths and other Sci-Fi Instruments! This is going to be awesome. Now we just need to come up with a name and get recording more music...

March 13th, 2022
Somnia Dream Scripting

Woke up from a dream this morning with even more subconcious inspirations for the short "The Asteroid of Misfit Droids" script I am writing for Eisner Award winning comics god Christian Ward to draw. Re-writing the whole thing from scratch today to incorporate those new ideas. And now I am *so happy* that I blew my original self-imposed deadline! Hope to be finished in the next few days.

March 9th, 2022
Get In The Box

LEATHER NOT PLEATHER's August Alston and I made a new "instrumental" song segment of Pure Unbridled Sex (and looped to 30 minutes for your pleasure) called "Get In The Box" for Ed Luce to use for his upcoming podcast. We finished it this morning and the full song with August's blistering vocals will be on our next album. I love it.

March 7th, 2022
Grinding In The Studio

Over the weekend I locked myself into my Sanctum Synthtorum music studio and cranked out a new song (with Kirsten playing her vintage 80s Cort/Steinberger B2 Headless Space Bass) for a couple of our friends to record tracks over called "This Robot." Check it out. It's unfinished until those friends do their parts, but do I enjoy it currently as sparse space tune with a driving chiptunes beat. Feels great to have finished this so quickly, I've really been on fire lately.

March 3rd, 2022
Challenging Mutations

Today I finished drawing Damnette, a GAMMA WORLD character my friend Ken Kniesel rolled up. Ken loves the trashiest comics, especially Danzig's VEROTIKA and Jim Balent's TAROT WITCH OF THE BLACK ROSE, and also the high-camp + comically giant breasts of Jimbo The Drag Clown... so when he got "enlarged body part" as a mutation I knew that I was in trouble and would have to work very hard to live up to Ken's expectations for his Damnette character. I was definitely dreading it for a couple weeks there. But drawing inspiration from Wendy O. Williams, The Albino Spider of Dajette and Marshal Law, and also constantly thinking to myself, "What kind of post apocalyptic lady would Danzig really, really want to have sex with?" I managed to make a drawing that both Ken and I ended up liking. Meet Damnette!

February 27th, 2022
My Top Four Superheroes

While I continue banging on my script like The Mindless Ones on the Mystical Barrier, please enjoy these images I put together of my favorite superheroes. #1. MARVEL: My Top Four Favorite Marvel Superheroes Ever, #2. DC: My Top Four Favorite DC Comics Superheroes Ever, #3. INDIE: My Top Four Favorite Indie Superheroes Ever. Some of these characters are pretty deep cuts (of course they are, I own a comic store after all) so drop me a note in the Guestbook if you need help identifying any of them.

February 26th, 2022
Clea, Sorcerer Supreme

In other hyper-capable take-no-shit space-lady comic news, Clea is the new Sorcerer Supreme in the new STRANGE series out next month. One of Marvel's oldest characters, created by legends Steve Ditko and Stan Lee, Clea first appeared way back in STRANGE TALES #126 (1964). She was in the first Doctor Strange story I ever read (STRANGE TALES #139 reprinted in the awesome MARVEL'S GREATEST SUPERHERO BATTLES in 1978), and her tragic adventures of otherworldly mysticism as outcast, rebel, and leader of the Dark Dimension have long made this obscure character among my personal Top Four Favorite Marvel Superheroes Ever. By a cosmic twist of fate Clea shares my birthday day and (when well written) is a total Scorpio. As a character who doesn't show up very often in the comics (probably for the best) and has never had her own series before, not even a mini-series or a one-shot, it will be exciting to get to finally read her starring in her own series. This is the first time I've ordered myself variant covers in years.

February 25th, 2022
Trapped Between The Panels

Blew my (personal) script deadline for "The Asteroid of Misfit Droids." Writing a 5-page story with an O'Henry style twist ending has proven a bit more challenging than I thought it would be. But a nice benefit is I keep getting neat ideas I need to incorporate into the script in my dreams. Which, of course, makes the whole process more difficult. The story is very mid-80s 2000ad inspired so the main character Vaara Resnik is very much in the vein of Halo Jones and Johnny Alpha.

February 11th, 2022
Mail Art Archive (February 2022)

Yesterday we rolled up Ed Luce's GAMMA WORLD character and today I drew him, a mutant post-apocalyptic Purple One (I especially love that codpiece and belt buckle!). My first take on the drawing, this demo version has a decidedly non-Prince vibe, and was just to help me get the pose, some details, and that FURY ROAD War Boys vibe down. So I'm going to include this original demo drawing in some near-future mail for one of my friends soon.

February 9th, 2022
Internet Killed The Video Star

The second of my new sub-websites is VHS ROADKILL, a site dedicated to the under appreciated world of trashy and low-brow "VHS VideoZines" like this one from 1989-1992 that I have always wanted to torture myself watching. HNH Volume One has been scored off eBay and is on it's way to my VCR as we speak.

February 5th, 2022
The 1978 Apocalypse Is Coming

The first of my two new sub-websites is going to be a tribute to James M. Ward's insanely cool 1st edition GAMMA WORLD Table Top RPG. I'm having a bunch of my friends roll up new characters & I'm drawing them, so among other obsessive late-70s post apocalyptic things, the site will feature these new 2022 mutant creations. Complete with stats, character bios, and downloadable character sheets so you and your friends can murder them at your home RPG tables! As 1st edition GAMMA WORLD doesn't have an offical character sheet I designed my own which will also be available to visitors of the site.

February 4th, 2022
February's Ever Expanding Internets

This month I need to finish my script for "The Asteroid of Misfit Droids" a short comic I'm writing for Eisner Award winning artist Christian Ward to draw. Very intimidating! Hope to have the creative juice to get that SPACE MONSTERS album cover drawn so I can release that album this month. I've also got the HTML bug biting me again... so I'll be expanding this webpage with two brand new websites over the next months. Still planning to do NEURO-BLAST DISKZINE too.

January 29th, 2022
Of Slavebots and Space Bands

My 1990s were dominated by my intergalactic superstar spacerock band SPACE STATION's six-year musical destruction of the American Midwest Cheesebelt. SPACE STATION shows, always with our routinely-abused robot roadie named SLAVEBOT, were known to be noisy oscillator-fueled bassgasmic sonic onslaughts, destructively chaotic and costume-laden, hot mustard swilling acid-flashback-inducing affairs. A sustained and unrelenting verbal and musical assault on the dumb Earthlings in attendance. Years later in 2007 I made a new friend at San Diego Comic Con who had once toured as the roadie for a band that SPACE STATION had played with in Wisconsin, Seattle's SPACE NEEDLE. We were so disappointed to discover that SPACE NEEDLE, despite their band's name, weren't space people at all, just more boring 90s Earth dudes. We were, however, highly amused that they had a roadie! We invited this BABY SLAVEBOT to ditch his pooleeg Earthling band and come party with Space Station instead. When I launched this site Ron saw this flyer and confirmed that, yes indeed, he was that terrified deer-in-headlights roadie kid who I invited to go out drinking with us 12 years earlier!

January 21st, 2022
Analog Glitching

Josh at HyperBeam Labs has finished assembling DEADTECH's analog video glitcher and sent us footage of him appropriately glitching out the opening credits of the X-FILES. So beautiful! I can't wait until VJ Convex and I can get together and play with it. Josh at HyperBeam Labs makes custom GameBoy handhelds, retro mods & repairs on vintage videogame systems (he's also restoring a Sega Dreamcast for me)... and now... building custom video / audio effects modules for DEADTECH!

January 19th, 2022
Fix Me Now, I Wish You Would

Minor updates and fixes on the Orange Krush and MySpace sites. I'm going to keep adding content and making fixes on these sites until the internet implodes.

January 15th, 2022
BEST NEWS OF 2022!

Such huge news for me! "The Asteroid of Misfit Droids" is a short 2000ad-inspired sci-fi comic that I am writing for Comics Conspiracy's 2023 birthday anthology. And it is being drawn by the amazing multi-Eisner Award winning comic book artist CHRISTIAN WARD! Christian is without a doubt the best and most exciting artist of his generation and I am overjoyed that he was able to fit my project into his schedule. My script will be completed by the 15th of next month. Check out this link and this link and this link and this link and this link and this link to see Christian's mind-blowing psychedelic space comic art.

January 14th, 2022
Some Assembly Required

Despite the chaos of pandemic-era worldwide shipping the DIY analog video glitcher kit I ordered from Italy back in December has arrived to get us destroying VHS footage for my audio / video project DEADTECH. Thanks to HyperBeam Labs we should be up and glitching in the next couple weeks.

January 14th, 2022
Steel And You

I thought for sure I killed my Grape iMac G3 today. Totally distraught. Thankfully it was just a loose power cord and the Sanctum Synthtorum continues forward unabated, just my steel friend and me.

January 4th, 2022
Mail Art Archive (January 2022)

In the 1990s I almost never would send a letter or a package through the mail without including an original drawing along with it. I've decided to resurrect the tradition. These are just quick and rough thoughtless free-form scrawls plucked directly from the subconciousness and are not of the quality that I would like to include in the Drawings section of this site (although there is a couple pieces up there that were once drawn and mailed on the front of envelopes). Instead I'm going to keep an archive here. Apologies in advance for anything you may encounter at these links and for all the Mad Dog 20/20 references. 1/3 August Alston, 1/17 Heavy Pennington, 1/25 Lance Baker, 1/29 Kirsten Baldock

January 3rd, 2022
Purple Power

Welcome to 2022! Now sitting in my studio next to the Grape iMac G3 (1999) which is featured obsessively on the Orange Krush site is now *also* a Purple M1 iMac (2021). Hilarious! Looking forward to learning a fancy new Digital Audio Workstation (Logic Pro) and making a ton of new music with this studio upgrade. Up next is the long-delayed next Space Monsters EP - with hugely thunderous drums by the amazing Joshua Krause. I've been dragging my feet on drawing that album cover for too long. Aiming for a January 25th release (delayed it a month to get a comic script finished).

December 31st, 2021
Everything Old Is New Beat Again

DEADTECH, my Belgian New Beat / Nougat Beat "band", released our new album for NYE 2021 at 10pm Ghent, Belgium time (the birthplace of the genre) / 1pm here in San Francisco. A six-song digital test pressing LP of slow electronic dance music of heavy bass and sparse, relentless trance-inducing Mogodon grooves. I sent copies out to all my favorite parallel-Earth New Beat DJs for them to spin at their clubs to get their New Years Eve revellers bounching on those multiversal dancefloors. Stream it or download it free here.

December 29th, 2021
Mai The Psychic Girl

Knowing I wanted the final song I wrote for my upcoming DEADTECH album to be the moodiest and most down-tempo track on the whole album, I set my sites on making something that would sit comfortably next to three of my all-time favorite New Beat songs, Zsa Zsa Laboum - Something Scary, Logo - Businessmen, Max Berlin - Elle et Moi. This song is named after one of the first Japanese comics ever translated and brought to the west, the incredible Mai The Psychic Girl, written by Kazuya Kudō and illustrated by Ryoichi Ikegami. Time was (appropriately) tight and also the pressure was on to deliver a good song that fit with those others and do Mai justice too. Really happy with my results. What a way to end the year!

December 23rd, 2021
Deadliner

Quite the week! Juggling between my home studio and the computer at work during my off-hours I managed to craft the first of my December New Beat bangers. "Acid Spacewalk" is done. One more to go before the year ends. Despite holiday work and life stuff and my Covid booster coming up... I am determined to get this done.

December 15th, 2021
Acid Spacewalking

I've got two new Deadtech songs of my personal flavor of Belgian New Beat to get done before the end of the year if I want to get that album released on New Years Eve. The schedule is tight. But that's the tradition. Back in 1988 the New Beat producers were writing / recording / releasing new songs weekly to hand to their favorite DJs on Friday night. Can I do the same? My first new song "Year Zero - Acid Spacewalk (DEADTECH Mix)" started getting crafted today.

December 10th, 2021
Neuromantics

Doing research to make this webproject had such a profound impact on me that I just keep reading more. Currently enjoying Timothy Leary's 1994 futuristic vision and stream-of-consciousness rant Chaos and Cyber Culture. It's jam packed full of funny computer and cultural evolutionary dead ends and extinct tech terminologies. My favorite, is "Neuromantics" a philisophical movement coined by anthropologist Bradd Shore in 1996 to describe the "cybernetic frame of mind among excited computer enthusiasts." I love how the term seems to reference the late 70s and early 80s "New Romantic" music genre. I'm definitely going to be using that term sometime somewhere.

December 9th, 2021
Going Nuclear

Struggled for a few days trying to craft the new instrumental Leather Not Pleather track for Ed Luce's upcoming podcast. I ended up doing the same thing I had to do on the original Orange Krush site and the original Homepage. Scrapping the whole thing, nuking it from orbit, and starting afresh. Ended up with the start of a *great* track! In art - sometimes the Nuclear Option is best.

December 4th, 2021
Fresh Gear Alert

After all these years I found an original vintage 1999 "Fruit Colors" Apple circular translucent Mousepad on eBay (in Grape, of course!) to go with my iMac. I remember seeing these official Apple round mousepads in stores and magazines back in the day (I think this issue of Mac Addict) and wanting one to match my iMac and the famously derided "hockey puck" mouse that came with it. But I just could not justify spending insane Apple prices, something like $30-40, on a stupid mousepad! All these years later, on those rare occassions that they actually show up on eBay, they're still absurdly expensive thanks to all the dorky Apple collectors out there. So I never got one. Until today when I got lucky and scored one for $12! Awesome, I look forward to updating that vintage gear page again. The Krush promised he'd keep updating it as his added more high-tech gear to his state-of-the-art Krush Cave. And, yes, this means yet another new Orange Krush photoshoot with his rad purple-themed iMac mousepad full of funny poses and old school gear porn is in the not-so distant future!

December 3th, 2021
Building A Better Tomorrow

Bought a DIY kit for an analog video glitcher to destroy VHS footage for my audio / video project DEADTECH. Totally mangles video signals in the best way. We're having Josh Richardson at the Custom Handhelds / Retro Mods / Vintage Console Repair House HyperBeam Labs assemble it for us. Next up is putting together parts and DIY photochemical machining to make a custom Leather Not Pleather "AssMaster" Maestro BB-1 Bass Pedal replica for me to play with on the next album.

December 2nd, 2021
All Of My Purple Life

2022 is time to upgrade my Digital Audio Workstation and in-the-box recording studio. Upgrading from the free bare-bones GarageBand that I've been using for recoding the last decade to a real DAW to make collaborating with Psychovore's André Buckles and also my flying trapeze / DJ friend Andrew Nilsen easier. Hilariously, thanks all the stuff I wrote for this website this year, I've now become obsessed with the idea of getting a new iMac with an M1 chip. In Purple, of course!

December 1st, 2021
Back In The Saddle Again

After a few days of post-launch decompression and recharging the batteries, back at it. Ed Luce (WUVABLE OAF) asked if Leather Not Pleather could make an intro to his upcoming podcast so today I spent a few hours building drum beats out of a voice message I had August leave me a voicemail of dirty sex grunts. Gonna be great. Also today I mailed out our first internationally sold CD to a record store called "All The Best" in Imola, Italy. Wow!

November 23rd, 2021
A Model Netizen

The Web loves the Orange Krush! Especially when it's a ridiculous photo with a comment like "If you’ve still got time left on that '500 Free Minutes' AOL Trial CD, point your browser & check out the sweet Orange Krush internet homestead for high-tech talk & low-culture infobahn thrills."

November 22nd, 2021
Many More Thanks!

Today I mailed out our first CDs, Mini-CDs, Floppy Disks, and Cassette Tapes. What an awesome feeling! I spent a bunch of hours over my weekend making cardboard sleeves and hand-wrapping cassettes in aluminum foil. Ken Sanderson, a friend of mine who runs one of the best punk record labels on Earth, Prank Records, gave me a ton of great advice about packing and shipping those things out. I did my best to follow as much of his tsunami of wisdom and decades of experience as possible. Hope I did him proud! Thanks Ken! And my huge thanks to everyone who checked out the music. And especially to those who liked what they heard enough to add it to their collections.

November 21st, 2021
Mutant Mount Rushmore

Aside from my Leather Not Pleather collaborator, the mythologic Ares demigod August Alston, there were four artists that I was most hoping would enjoy this whole Homepage / Orange Krush / Leather Not Pleather / MyFakeSpace wormhole experience. All people who make and do amazing creative stuff that I think is super cool - a true Mutant Mount Rushmore of Art! Minneapolis interactive art-guerrilla Heavy Pennington, WUVABLE OAF creator Ed Luce, SF drag performer, filmmaker, and digidrag producer Piranha, and Designer / Flying Trapeze / DJ Andrew Nilsen. Really gratifying to see how much they are liking it!

November 19th, 2021
THANK YOU FOR CHECKING OUT THE SITE!

As I am not buried in HTML today (but still kind of stuck in the headspace of this project) I started reading Timothy Leary's 1994 book about the psychedelic internet universe Chaos and Cyber Culture. Super interesting to see how he and others were viewing the internet of the future back then, years before I first jumped on the net and printed out a Debbie Harry fan page. I wonder what he would think about where it has taken us in 2021.

November 18th, 2021
Just... Wow.

Completely overwhelming response. I am totally blown away. People are signing the Guest Book!

November 17th, 2021
BLAST OFF!

I launched the sites to the public today! What an awesome feeling! BOO-YA!

November 15th, 2021
On the Launch Pad

Today was a 4-hour long proofreading session. Kirsten on laptop, me on the desktop. My goal right from the start was to make a tiny but sprawling web universe full of hyperlink wormholes to tumble into. But you don't really realize how sprawling until you try to proofread it all. Thanks to Kirsten Baldock for catching those errors! I was quietly thrilled to see when she had to cover up part of the screen to keep the overwhelming brain-bewildering of flashing GIFs from distracting her eyes. Ha! Unfortunately my special sparkly dagger cursor on Orange Krush's site made it so that the Chrome browser wouldn't click links. So the sparkly dagger cursor had to go. Bummer. Also I edited the HOMEPAGE logo in the hopes that it would make it a bit easier to read for mobile browsers. But the site is still best viewed on a desktop computer! And with Netscape Navigator, yo!

November 12th, 2021
Let's GOOOOOO!

Uploaded photos and completely re-routed the entire Leather Not Pleather website. It was the first major HTML pages that I worked on for this project, and it is also the last before public launch. Returning to it after a bunch of intense weeks building everything else, I find that I couldn't be happier with the level of crude and ugly minimalism to it. And it has just the right amount of tortuousness. It's just so Leather Not Pleather. We're not waiting on those cassettes anymore, they'll just have to have a December release date on them. So as long as society doesn't collapse over the weekend I'm launching this project to the public next Wednesday.

November 9th, 2021
Unartful Dodger

In the dawdling downtime while waiting for LNP's overworked cassette tape manufacturer to get my job in the queue, I've been doing a full upgrade and enhancement on the Bandcamp with descriptions like "The perfect low-rent soundtrack for your next short-term nightclub-bathroom romance!" Here are today's soundtracks.

November 8th, 2021
These Chromium Dreams

Today I set up a huge fabrication and manufacturing factory in my living room to make all the mini-albums, so many tiny mini-CDs everywhere you looked, it was glorious.

November 5th, 2021
Heroin Habit

In the process of doing all the research for the Orange Krush page write-up on Billy Idol's ill-fated "Cyberpunk" album, I accidently got myself addicted to his multitude of remixes for "Heroin." Between three different releases I dug up 7 different versions and have 4 more mixes coming on a vinyl-only remix album. But the best thing is I got my hands on this "Please return to Chrysalis Records" promotional VHS tape that Idol sent out to nightclub VJs. Man, I am in deep.

November 4th, 2021
Sounds Like The Turn Of The Century

APOLOGIES FOR AUTO-PLAYING MUSIC! Today I made the website auto-play an edit of an instrumental spacerock song called "A Clone Is Not A Man" written in 1999 on a Korg Prophecy, recorded to cassette tape on a 4-track Tascam 424 MK II Portastudio, and then digitized into the iMac G3, the sound of the Turn of the Century, all made with tech you'll find gloriously celebrated on Orange Krush's page. An old-school style addition to the page, no actual idea what I was doing HTML-wise, but made it work. You can turn the music off by clicking "stop" on the MySpace Music Player. (Well, shoot, that auto-play only worked for a day. Grumble, grumble. UPDATE: Oh, it just takes a long time to play. And it only plays most of the time, anyway. Well... yay!)

November 3rd, 2021
Good To Go

With this latest round of Animated GIFs for the "Techz" page finished today, the Orange Krush beta site is good to go. Yes! Just one more pass for a spelling / grammar check on all the pages and seeing if all the links are active. It's a little past my intended schedule but close. Now it's mostly just waiting on cassettes from the manufacturer (may give up waiting on them, but not yet) and doing a couple photos for the LNP site of that stuff now. Feeling great.

October 31st, 2021
Every Day Is Halloween

Still waiting on cassettes from the manufacturer so the site(s) launch schedule is pushed back a week (or two?) so I took the opportunity to do one more Orange Krush photo shoot with his gear to get even better pics before switching into annual Halloween costume mode.

October 29th, 2021
Sssssstriiiiiiiiiiipppppp!

After a week of LNP site stuff and making animated GIFs of Orange Krush, I could feel another round of HTML creative burn-out looming. But I *did* have this urge to make just one more non-album Leather Not Pleather track to release as a second 3" mini-CD single. But there was no time for that! That is, unless... I dug up an unused song and started re-building it around one of August's blistering isolated vocal tracks. And cranked August's vocal just a little bit too high in the mix so it would really feel like he was screaming at you. I was loving it! Two hours later I not only had a new LNP song called "Strip!" finished, but it is also one of my favorite tracks ever. Fun and danceable butt-moving music with August just freaking the fuck out over the top. Love it.

October 28th, 2021
Digital Audio Disc Day

My CD player is from the Stone Age of 1986 and was made before most people knew what a Compact Disc was so the company called it a "Digital Optical Turntable," which I think is hilarious. I write this because today was the day a big box of our CDs arrived from the manufacturer and, despite feeling like I just wanted to hoard them all to myself because I liked them so much, it was fun giving away a couple to friends who I knew would really enjoy them (at a "Cirque du Mort" Halloween party I gave a copy to my flying trapeze / DJ friend Andrew and got a "No WAY! NO WAY!" response which was pretty gratifying). Those out-of-style songs sound extra great on that ancient CD player.

October 26th, 2021
Orange Krushin' It

Yesterday we took 253 photos of the "killer Net rig" and Orange Krush's huge pile of tech gear. Some funny shots in there. Hope we got enough! Today I'm turning these pictures into animated GIFs for the "Techz" page, that is pretty close to the final puzzle piece on that page before launch.

October 23rd, 2021
Break Out The Champagne!

Yay, Homepage beta is finished! All that's left is a full spelling / grammar check on all the pages and seeing if all the links are active. Next up is a huge Orange Krush photoshoot for the "Techz" page and turning all of that stuff into animated GIFs to show off The Krush's bomb-ass high tech gear! After that, completing the LNP site (when are my CDs and Cassettes arriving, UPS?!), and doing just a bit more on the MySpace pages. Still aiming for an October 31st official launch date. Feeling like I'm going to make it!

October 21st, 2021
Sign My Guestbook

Crazy! Today I added a classic "Sign My Guestbook" image and link to the Homepage and wrote a quick message to folks. About an hour later I was showing a friend my progress and laughed, "Look at this, I've got a Guestbook for people to sign!" and clicked in... to discover to my utter shock someone had! Fellow Netizen Iglo left a really nice comment and totally blew my mind. The thing had only been up an hour! I had a brief moment of terror as I realized that people are looking at my site and they're looking at it RIGHT NOW. Crazy! After that initial freak out I felt an amazing feeling wash over me. I may not be ready for it yet but I am already part of this incredible NeoCities community. Wow, so cool. Thank you, Iglo, for the amazing welcome!

October 20th, 2021
Cyberpunk Melted My Brain

Finally finished Orange Krush's write-up on Billy Idol's "Cyberpunk" album. The amount of research on that entry was crazy. As the album was a huge bomb, most of the info about it was buried in ancient interviews or is simply just not online anymore. Very thankful to have found photos of an original 1993 press kit and also gotten my hands on the 3.5" Floppy Disk for that album. That Floppy Disk is equal parts beyond cheesy and beyond cool.

October 13th, 2021
Macintosh Dither

Although I didn't own a computer back in the 80s or early 90s, I have always loved the look of Apple Macintosh 1-bit black & white dithering. Knowing this is the technique I was going to be employing to make my HyperCard DiskZine this winter I'd started experimenting with it on photos of my cats. Which lead me to make the 1-Bit Mac Dither Kitten Theater. Cute stuff.

October 13th, 2021
In The Palm Of Your Hand

Today's treat on the Homepage is a Palm Pilot animated GIF that features a very-hard-to-read rotating selection of Top 10 lists. Most Listened Albums of 2021, Favorite Comic Characters, Favorite Table Top RPGs, Favorite Tiki Bars, Favorite PS1 Games. Also if you click on the AOL "You've Got Mail" icon, you can get a postcard from me! It might be my favorite thing on the entire website(s).

October 8th, 2021
Having A Blast Again!

So fired up! Today I made a great little RealPlayer for the Homepage that plays clips from Blondie's 1999 comeback hit song "Maria." In the 90s I had my entire livingroom in my apartment decked out with hand Xeroxed-and-enlarged Blondie posters (was truly a maestro on those Xerox machines). It was impossible for me not to smile walking into that crazy Debbie Harry room. And was also really fun to see that room's decor totally weird people out when they first came to my place (laugh)! "Maria" is such a great song. And back in '99 I'd bought tickets to see Blondie's No Exit tour here in California before I'd actually even moved here, so this album really represents such a happy, exciting time to me. And the fact that the video has a bit of a cyberpunk voyeuristic vibe to it too makes it the perfect fit for this homepage.

October 6th, 2021
Getting A Little Crazy

Started my post-creative-burn out day with an improbable and unlikely game plan. I needed to make a Homepage logo that was so good it would revitalize and reinvigorate my drained creativity like a phoenix from the ashes. A pretty tall order! On a funny whim I listened to Seal's "Crazy" which I hadn't heard since the early 1990s. The chorus resonated in my soul, "We're never gonna survive, unless, We get a little crazy." That was exactly what I needed to re-fuel this entire project, a little craziness, and I immediately made my awesome animated Homepage logo. Creativity was back!

October 5th, 2021
Burn Out...

Of course at some point I knew I'd hit creative burn out. And had been racing to get as much done before I ran into that wall. Today was the day. It was time to shift gears from Orange Krush to work on the Homepage at last, the final and also most important site page of all, the pressure is on! I'm starting from scratch all over again. And am not even sure how to do that right now. How am I going to make yet another page full of cheerfully flashing / moving / bouncing GIFs? I'm still hoping to have the site(s) launched by the end of October but still have a long way to go. Will I be able to find the creative enthusiasm to re-ignite the passion to finish this? Not today, anyway...

October 4th, 2021
Rave Krisp-E's

My flying trapeze / DJ friend, Andrew, who loves all things 90s Rave Culture recently sent me a song he used to rock back in the day all the time, EON "The Spice Must Flow", and it has absolutely been helping fuel me through this massive project. And as I'm finishing up on the last stuff on Orange Krush I really need all the fuel I can get. I got to pay back the gift of 90s goodness to Andrew today, as I accidentally bumped into the first Rave Flyer I ever saw, Rave Krisp-E's (front and back) in my endless Orange Krush 90s researches. Amazing! Andrew freaked out. It was great.

October 2nd, 2021
More New Web Skills

29 days into the Orange Krush site and still rocking. But definitely starting to run out of steam. That is until later in the day when I learned how to do Image Mapping. Oh very exciting. This opens up all sorts of new possibilities for adding hyperlinks into images. I made a little MySpace Music Player with various links to various songs of mine for those who might click on it. Yet another new web skill! I am totally thrilled.

October 1st, 2021
Glitching Out

Glitching all my party photos for the "Wipeout Cyberdellia" page. It's taking a lot of work and concentration to make them all glitch at different rates. My eyes and brain are utterly exhausted by the end of the day.

September 30th, 2021
Shock To The System

Made animated GIFs for the "Tunez" page today. By now, after a month of making hundreds of the things, I am really good at making these GIFs. These are designed to fit with the music, play the Plasmatics GIF while listening to "Butcher Baby" Techmaster PEB to "Time To Jam" and New Beat to "Flesh" and the Billy Idol one while listening to "Shock To The System" Watching Billy chicken-pecking around on his Machintosh keyboard is the funniest and also most endearing thing ever. As a fellow mostly-computer-moronic but still enthusiatic webcreator I find it totally inspiring.

September 28th, 2021
More Ever-Expanding Scopes

The best, or maybe worst, part of this NeoCities project is how it just keeps activating even more creative projects as I keep going down the rabbit hole. All the research that has gone into writing the Orange Krush site (really intense!) has introduced me to the coolest piece of ancient software, Apple HyperCard, a pre-internet application that people made all sorts of neat stuff with. After this project is put to bed I'm going to make a Zine. Made the NEUROBLAST INDUSTRIAL HYPERCARD DISKZINE logo this morning for it. And also did a massive amount of writing about Steve Ditko and Brendan McCarthy comics.

September 24th, 2021
Floppy Seconds

Writing our first Floppy Disk EPs and playing Leather Not Pleather's "Dance Sexy" off a 3.5" Floppy Disk on my ancient Grape iMac G3 computer from 1999. This is so exciting that it all actually worked. And it sounds awesome.

September 23rd, 2021
The Information Superhighway

Building this site and surfing others here on NeoCities is the most fun I've had on the internet in well over a decade. If you want to see this amazing corner of the internet and all this crazy awesome HTML art throughout NeoCities to live and thrive on in the glorious Information Superhighway sign up and give them $5 a month! Give NeoCities some love, and while you're at it, go ahead and make a cool site of your own about whatever you love for all of us to check out too. Totally money well spent.

September 21st, 2021
So Two Thousand

Heavy is going to recreate my 5-hour long Early 1980s Arcade Playlist on his Spotify account for me so people can continue listing to it after I close out my account. I told him my next project that I was working on is a "web project" and he responded "Ooohhhhh, That's So 2000 of You!"

September 18th, 2021
Making Flippy Floppy

The NeoCities project is inspiring creativity in unexpected avenues. Today I spent the morning converting Leather Not Pleather songs into tiny 8-Bit 8000 Hz files so I can fit them onto 3.5" Floppy Disks. Oh crap, these mixes are so dirty! They might sound better than the original versions. I've got to send these to August immediately.

September 15th, 2021
Color Correcting

The original iMac animated GIF of a spinning computer is great, but it's a Bondi Blue model, not Grape. So I guess I'm going to have to go in to every frame of that animation and re-color it all. No way would Orange Krush put the wrong color iMac on his page. It's gotta be Grape! Today I also did a ton of writing on the "Techz" page. The Krush has some serious elite gear for surfing the Infobahn. And I made four covers for his analog Zines. As a person who spent a good portion of my pre-internet life making Xerox zines, making the covers for those were so much fun.

September 13th, 2021
Into The Archives

Spent my day off at home digging through boxes and portfolios of old artwork. Nothing is organized in any of those boxes and portfolios, I was always too focused on making more of it to bother to organize any of it. The Homepage is going to have a bunch of writing and artwork people have never seen. Old stuff, new stuff.

September 10th, 2021
Retina Burning

In order to make the perfect Orange Krush website experience it needs to stupefy your brain like a nightclub. Blinding with strobe-light bewilderment. Pulsating. Hypnotizing. Bewildering. Today I made animated GIFs for the "Gamez" and "Bookz" sections while playing the Billboard Hot Dance Chart for the week of October 26th, 1991 with the subwoofer turned up high enough to feel it. Ended the day with my eyes throbbing and my heart pounding.

September 9th, 2021
How You Frame It

Two days of intense grinding on the Orange Krush page and today I finally figured out how to do HTML Frames. Since my early Net days, making those things has always eluded me. But now I'd added that skill to my web toolbox, along with the Animated GIFs (that I was now making what seemed like a hundred a day). In a reckless impulse I trashed the original Orange Krush page and rebuilt it in Frames. In glorious eye-melting Orange, Yellow, and Neon Green. Sweeeet.

September 7th, 2021
Revelation & Epiphany

I woke up from a dream realizing that the whole project was missing something vitally important. Loved my sexy animated-breathing-leather band site that looks like it is 20 years out of date and my funny fake MySpace pages. But I'd completely blown it. I didn't have a Homepage! What good is having a NeoCities website without a Homepage? How could I have been so blind?! It doesn't matter how much more work it will require, a Netizen needs a proper home, so I signed up for a second NeoCities account. This will host not just a Netizen page but also a massive Orange Krush page too. That dude seriously needs a site.

August 31st, 2021
Droids

Took a break from the site today. But still riding the wave of that creative tsunami. So I wrote the rough first draft script for a 5-page comic today called "The Asteroid of Misfit Droids" for Comics Conspiracy's 2023 birthday anthology. Gotta start finding my artist. I don't think I'll have a final draft finished before the Netizen site goes live.

August 18th, 2021
Gets You Off

Today I made an animated GIF in August's (kind of crazy person) handwriting that jitters. It's so perfect. It says "Sleazy 90s Industrial, The Energy That Gets You Off." Cannot wait to get to show him all of this, he's going to love it so much.

August 12th, 2021
Hidden Treats

These MyFakeSpace pages are full of links that don't do anything. That's disappointing. Maybe I should put in some Easter Eggs for people who click around.

August 10th, 2021
Ever Expanding Scope

The problem with making bootleg MySpace pages is you actually want them to link to other pages and profiles. I'd already linked us to joejoefashosho's pages but it just didn't feel like enough. So I made even more bootleg MySpace pages, LUST IN SPACE's AstroBabe and Z'Ma, and a couple others. The feeling of building more of an experience than just a website is intoxicating.

August 3rd, 2021
ME GORGAR

Huge progress on August's MyFakeSpace today. He's a bit of a luddite who has never had any social media account ever (so cool) so I wasn't sure how he'd feel about me making these dumb fake accounts or even get the dumb joke. But... HE WAS SO INTO IT! He also has always loved this totally Satanic pinball machine, GORGAR, a 1979 classic by Williams that would shout "ME GOT YOU!" and "ME GORGAR!" so I added some GORGAR side art to his MySpace page with a smile. He's going to be so happy.

July 31, 2021
Things Are Moving

Having never learned how to make animated GIFs I knew it was the next thing I'd need to do if I was going to really have fun getting creative with the project. Some frustrating days bumbling through Photoshop until I finally figured out what I was doing. Things are moving! By the end of the day I'd progressed to making my GIFs over transparent backgrounds.

July 30, 2021
Hot Hot Leather

After days of trial and error I finally got an animated leather background working for my LNP page. It looks like it's breathing. Sexy. Dirty. Perfection.

July 27, 2021
MyFakeSpace

After several painful days trying to re-learn primitive HTML skills I had forsaken back in the early 2000s, I finally had the crude foundation of a website started. What a satisfying feeling! What it needed was to have links to band members on something totally outmoded like Friendster or Myspace. Typing "Myspace" into the NeoCities search engine and discovered joejoefashosho, who had bootlegged MySpace and made the template available to everyone. Immediately began work on a couple MySpace pages of my own and put Joe in our Top Friends list, of course!

July 23, 2021
NeoCities Discovery!

Discovered a little place on the internet called "NeoCities" today while looking for the perfect place to host a kind of ugly and completely out of date website for my sleazy 90s industrial band. What could be more apropos for that band than to have some shitty site that looks like it has been sitting un-noticed on the Net all these years? Searching "modern day Angelfire GeoCities" into Google, assuming I'd get nothing worthwhile, but found NeoCities instead. Full of weird and wonderful sites. People were using this place to make actual Web Art! And some of the sites were even really ugly too. I was thrilled and couldn't wait to get to work.

Hi, I'm James.

When I was a kid my dad was constantly bringing home old crap he got from Goodwill and saying stuff like, "These were the best downhill ski boots you could buy in 1962" and outfitting my young self with trashy and decades out of style relics of yesteryear. My weird clothes, home haircuts done with a straight-razor - I got a lot of grief from the "cool kids" at school for all that stuff. Especially those damn 1962 downhill ski boots that were made of ice cold, barely-insulated red leather and had shoe laces that would freeze and trap you inside them. And which also stuck out like a sore thumb on those school ski trips and get you accosted by the rich kids for wearing ancient garbage like that.

But my dad was right.

Not only was sticking out like a sore thumb always going to be my lot in life, and there was simply no hiding from it (trying to blend in with other kids sucked anyway)... but old stuff, especially that built-to-last old stuff that you can fix with your hands or old technology that has limited but sexy functionality, is awesome.

I write and record a bunch of music in my free time. I play old, kind of unloved, synthesizers (Roland SH-09, Roland SH-2, Korg Prophecy, etc) and pair them with other old, slightly unpopular, gear (Roland CSQ-600, Drumatix 606, Apple G3 iMac, etc) to make music that I enjoy (space rock, industrial, synth-glam, and various forms of electronic and EBM derivatives). I gather a bunch of dorky old things to display in my home. From antique ray guns (1930s Buck Rogers XZ-38 Disintegrator Pistol, 1950s Futuristic Productions' Strato Gun, etc), to vintage comic books (2000ad, Daredevil, Doctor Strange, etc), to old video games (Genesis, PS1, PSP, etc), to mugs from Tiki Bars I've visited (Caribbean Zone in SF, Aku Aku in Oslo, Okolemaluna in Hawaii, etc), and old table top RPG box sets (Gamma World, Star Frontiers, Psi-World, etc). Recently I've been restoring 8-Track tapes and eBaying 1960s 4-Track Muntz Tape Carts to listen to in my car. Speaking of old stuff I recently had a one-in-a-billion lucky break and actually found my old skateboard on eBay that I gave away 32 years ago. Pretty amazing.

I don't like labels very much so I don't tend to use them when talking about myself. But do often refer to myself as a "creative weirdo" and also an "optimist" - so I guess I'm cool with those labels. I also proudly wear my hard-won "dork" label. Cos man, I earned that over a lifetime of social misfit-hood. Unfortunately, "geek" and "nerd" have been co-opted by marketing agencies to sell stuff, so those terms are 86ed in my world. Folks don't seem to like dorks very much, so I'll gladly be one of those instead.

Twenty one years ago I opened up the comic store of my dreams in San Francisco with Kirsten Baldock, and we're still running it today, Isotope - the Comic Book Lounge. It truly is a dream job. I had this crazy vision of what I wished comic stores could be like and just had to see it come to life. My comic book store takes a lot of work and a lot of love and a lot of creativity. It's a fun place where I get to host all sorts of unique and unusal events. And putting comic books in people's hands is the best job I could ever hope to have. Things went so well with the comic store, and I had that probably slightly insane itch to spread my creative wings even further, so ten years ago I decided to risk it all to throw the greatest party / comic convention I could dream up, called MorrisonCon, with 10 of our most favorite comic book creators at the Hard Rock Casino in Las Vegas. Just in time for the end of the Mayan Calendar and just before the coming of Ragnarök. The party of the millennium! Thanks to the hard work and brilliance of Kirsten and our friend Ron, and the creators and the guests, we did just that. A huge success and a truly legendary event in the comics industry. And thankfully it didn't destroy my beloved comic store or our relationships in the process. I am truly blessed to have been able to bring those parallel-Earth visions of comic stores and comic conventions to life.

I have several band projects I am actively writing and recording music for. Space Monsters, a cinematic instrumental space rock synth-and-drums band with drummer Josh Krause who now lives outside of Malmo, Sweden. Leather Not Pleather, a sleazy 90s-style industrial band with legendary Portland crustpunk singer August Alston. The synth-glam band Hologlam, a dragtastic San Francisco-based SF glitter rock trio starring otherwoldly rockstars Jimmi Nova, K-Rae, and superstar lead singer Cherry Cosmic. Deadtech, a Belgian New Beat audio + Video Toaster visual hypnosis project with VJ Convex (Chuck Nicklow). I just got a collaboration track back for Psychovore, a new hallucinogenre for me of pure Psy-Trance with my lifelong friend André Buckles. That's some hot stuff! Am hoping to craft some rave-tastic tunes with my flying trapeze / DJ friend Andrew Nilsen in the New Year. And am excited about a potential avant-garde / synth-punk venture with multi-instrumentalist and famed Minneapolis interactive art-guerrilla Heavy Pennington. And just in case that's not enough projects already, former members and I have also been cooking up a mad plan to revive two of my favorite old bands, one which was active in the early 2000s and another which left an indelible scar on the American Midwest with more shows than I can remember over half a decade in the mid 1990s.

A few years ago I restored my dad's 1965 Mustang and drive it every weekend now. That was another life-long dream. I have known that car my entire life, rode in it as a baby with my sisters along the Wisconsin River, and also watched it sit dead in my childhood driveway for more years than I can count. I'll never forget telling a neighbor kid as he was kicking my ass in my own driveway that someday I'd fix that car up and drive far away from all the bullshit. He didn't believe me, and neither did most other people throughout my life. But I knew they were wrong. After moving to California, and then spending all my savings to open my comic book store, the Mustang sat outside for 16 years before I could finally get her running again. We spent six long winter months in a cold garage wrenching under that hood, cleaning the interior, and endlessly hand-sanding the destroyed paint to reveal beautiful layers hidden beneath the surface. Hard work but it was worth it.

Recently I've been re-teaching myself 20-year-dormant HTML skills, plus a lot of things I never knew how to do, in order to make this NeoCities page. Another art project using the medium of old technology that has limited but sexy functionality. And that you can fix with your hands, in a sense. And in the process, learning the art of creating animated GIFs in order to create this Homepage website, the Orange Krush site (based on a character I play at the 1995 Hackers themed quadrennial party that I host with Terminal Velocity), and the marginally-not-safe-for-work Leather Not Pleather site. I have always found creative limitations and archaic tools to be fertile ground for driving creativity. So it's been particularly creatively potent to be delving back into this ancient web tech. Also I think it's funny. And that gets the creative juices flowing too.

Doing this project has inspired me to learn and create more primitive art projects using obsolete software. Up next I'm teaching myself HyperCard, which is a pre-internet hypermedia application and development kit for Apple Macintosh and Apple IIGS computers, to make a modern DiskZine about the current industrial music scene to be released on 3.5" Floppy Disk and also via the web on the Internet Archive (click here for a sneak peek).

Let's see... what else should I tell you about myself? I live with two adorable cats, Asgard and Avalon. I built them a Tiki Bar for Cats under some wicker lawn furniture just before I started on this site. If you like cats you can see my old school Macintosh-Dithered photos of them on the left hand side of this page and also in a larger format at the 1-Bit Mac Dither Kitten Theater. I love them very much.

Oh... and I still cut my hair at home. Fuck blending in.

Thanks again for stopping by.

Happy X-Day fellow SubGenius (and SubGenius-adjacent persons who I think deserve a seat on the Escape Vessels with me),

July 5th 7am is here and the 1998 that was foretold has finally come! We've been waiting patiently (frustratingly we've all waited a lot of extra years for this day thanks to some faulty date transcriptions) and I am confident that our dutiful patience is to be rewarded this year in 2022. And considering the state of Planet Earth lately I am sure you're just as thrilled and relieved by the arrival of crazy space ships from outer space finally arriving as I am!

As you are probably noticing as this email arrives in your in-box, the Pleasure Saucers from Planet X are in the skies above your home and are beaming up all the dues-paying SubGenii up for our interplanetary rides out of here. And taking other select neat folks, kooks, and weirdos too. THIS YEAR FOR SURE!

To celebrate this momentous occasion I am beaming this apocalyptic X-Day inspired space rock album by myself and drummer Josh Krause directly to you for end-of-the-world soundtrack listening enjoyment on your space flight! SPACE MONSTERS are *thrilled* to feature special guest star on bass and vocals on this album, the legendary AstroBabe of the early 2000s SubGenius space rock band LUST IN SPACE! 

( For the most hardcore AstroBabe fans we are also releasing a limited edition autographed 8x10 print of her pin-up calendar photoshoot for the 3X-Day "Connieite Calendar" on our band's site: https://decayingorbit.bandcamp.com/album/out-of-the-atomfire ) 

Included in this email are all the songs in .wav file format, and the album cover. You can also stream the here: 
https://decayingorbit.bandcamp.com/album/out-of-the-atomfire

Beaming you all my love, see you on the Pleasure Saucers my friends!

- James


PS Having been waiting for this day since the 90s I suppose there's a *slight* chance that we might be wrong again... but (shrugs) I guess we'll just have to continue writing more space rock, because one of these years this is going to work. It's gotta, right?!

----

The third SPACE MONSTERS album of cosmic sonic debris from a parallel-Earth's 1997. This six-song album "OUT OF THE ATOMFIRE" features special space rock guest-star on bass and vocals by the one and only ASTROBABE of the legendary SubGenius band LUST IN SPACE! 

"OUT OF THE ATOMFIRE" releases on X-Day 2022 (Tuesday, July 5th) for playing on the Alien Sex Goddesses' long awaited Pleasure Saucers. If you are a dues-paying SubGenii, contact us for a free copy of this album for you to enjoy on your escape vessel / cosmic orgy ride out of here. 

In celebration of this momentous occasion, SPACE MONSTERS will be releasing in a worldwide tour of X-Day 2022 releases at precisely 7am, as the Escape Vessels circle the Earth beaming up all SubGenius. Hallelujah! Each stop on the tour across the globe feature new bonus songs. 

7am @ Malmo, Sweden 
"Spaceway" 
"The Arrival" (featuring AstroBabe of LUST IN SPACE) 

7am @ London, England 
Bonus Song! 
"Beyond The Void" 

7am @ Brushwood in Sherman, New York 
Bonus Song! 
"The Pleasure Saucers" (featuring AstroBabe of LUST IN SPACE) 

7am @ Madison, Wisconsin 
Bonus Song! 
"Wayspace" 

7am @ San Francisco, California 
Bonus Song! 
"Goodbye Earth" (featuring AstroBabe of LUST IN SPACE) 

(No matter what time you board the Pleasure Saucers, or get the album here on Earth, we will be beaming all the bonus songs to you once they are released.) 

SPACE MONSTERS features the drummer and synth player of SPACE STATION, this esoteric space rock instrumental duo creates neanderthalithic minimal audio landscapes to damage your senses. Founded sometime 1995-1998, the SPACE MONSTERS project went unrecorded for nearly 20 years. And, on this release, special guest star AstroBabe from the legendary early 2000s space rock band LUST IN SPACE on bass and vocals. 

OUT OF THE ATOMFIRE was created between band members in New York / Malmo, Sweden and San Francisco as human society continued its swift descent into destruction, from October 2017 - June 2022. Album title taken from a science fiction short story by Bryce Walton & Ross Rocklynne from vintage pulp FUTURE SCIENCE FICTION (May 1951). Cover art ©2022 James Sime. 

Best played at ear-splitting volume with headphones fused to your head. All earth money from SPACE MONSTERS sales donated to the ACLU. 

THE PLEASURE SAUCERS ARE COMING THIS YEAR FOR SURE! SEE YOU THERE! 



Orange Krush's Offline Arcade

For those days when the Feds are sniffing around your IP addy, kick back offline with this hand-picked list of classic console entertainments. All Krush-approved, of course!


WIPEOUT (Playstation)

Yo yo, it's the futuristic anti-gravity combat racing game of maximum speed and extreme style! Developed and published by Psygnosis / Studio Liverpool originally in 1995 by Game Designer Nick Burcome, Producer Dominic Mallinson, and Director John White, in conjunction with art genius Keith Hopwood and The Designers Republic.

WIPEOUT is the coolest shit!

As sexy as that debut game was... it was the 1996 sequel WIPEOUT XL (or WIPEOUT 2097 for those of you outside North America) that truly upped the ante and brought WIPEOUT to the world. Many games followed, each strictly adhering to the formula of eyeball-blistering momentum, seizure-inducing screen-pounding effects, and the hottest new electronic techno and trance tracks. The music in this game is so good the first time I played it at a friend's house a spontaneous apartment rave broke out thanks to the hot ass tracks by COLD STORAGE. And the very next morning I started saving up to buy a Playstation.

This game is a prime feature at the secret undergound parties hosted by Terminal Velocity and yours truly, the WIPEOUT CYBERDELIA, where the most elite computer jockeys on the net are known to meet and mingle. A new version is rumored to be launching the upcoming PlayStation®VR2. The WIPEOUT OMEGA COLLECTION on PSVR is one of the most intense gaming experiences ever.

A pre-release version of the first WIPEOUT game was seen in the movie HACKERS... but you phreaks already knew that, didn't you?!

AG-SYS 4 LIFE!


SHADOWRUN (Sega Genesis)

Welcome to the Shadows, Chummer! What could be cooler for your Sega Genesis than this game based on the raddest cyberpunk tabletop RPG ever?

Seattle 2058, the cities of the world have gone on a neon bender and spewed sick all over themselves. Wageslaves for the Corps work in high-rise glass and steel megaplex nightmares while the rest of us scumbags fend for scraps on the streets. The blending of technology and human flesh began in the 20th Century and is an everyday fact of life now. Enhanced bodies, enhanced minds, but only if you’ve got the Nuyen (¥) to pay for it. And here in the dirty, rainy Seattle alleyways, if you're not selling your organs to the ripperdocs and chopshops for a bowl of rice, you're probably stuffing yourself full of 'ware and cyber-enhancements to give you an edge on the hard streets.

But something else has changed the world too.

Magic was reborn into this world in a violent, traumatic Re-Awakening 47 years ago as a five-thousand-year cycle began again. Elves, Dwarfs, and Trolls assumed their true form, throwing off their human guises. Sorcery, mysticism and monsters out of ancient lore are now as commonplace as the black market cyberware vendors on the street corner.

The Sega Genesis game was developed by BlueSky Software based on the ultra-dope tabletop role-playing game by FASA. The game lets you choose to play as a Street Samurai (a high-tech mercenary), a Decker (an elite cyberspace computer hacker), or a Gator Shaman (a street mage blessed by a lizardistic beast-god). This game is vastly superior to the SNES version, especially when decking the Matrix, and you know that's where it's at for folks like you and the Krush. So if you still have your Sega Genny sitting around, you gotta give this one a spin.

Run the shadows. Risk the jobs that no one else will touch. Jack into the Matrix and cyberdeck slice your way through lethal Black IC (ice) to nab some juicy corporate secrets to sell. Take on the mega corporations.

Just don’t get caught with an empty clip in this town, Chummer.


PHANTASY STAR (Sega Master System)

This might be for an old-timey console and deciedly not state-of-the-art these days, but Orange Krush is here to tell you all that PHANTASY STAR is still hella cool!

Phantasy Star is yet another super dope game from the game-making Einsteins at Sega. Last summer, as I wasn't out at the usual clubs each night and was mostly just maxin' and relaxin' at Casa Krush, it turned out to be the perfect time to tackle this ginormously illustrious Japanese RPG, one of the first ever JRPGs released for consoles.

Designers and programmers Kotaro Hayashida, Yuji Naka, Miki Morimoto and writer Chieko Aoki packed this cartridge with four megabits of memorable characters, freaky aliens, random monsters, space ships, amazing music by Rieko Kodama and Tokuhiko Uwabo, and Yuji Naka's system-pushing out-of-this-world 3D dungeons.

The story of Alis on her journey through Algol Star System to defeat the evil interplanetary ruler, King Lassic, after her brother dies at his hands. Teaming up with a sweet-hearted warrior named Odin, a rad gender-bending wizard named Noah, and a butt-kicking smart-mouthed alien cat named Myau. They must travel three planets (the tropical Palma, the dessert Motavia, and the icy and desolate Dezoris) to take down the tyrant king.

The Krush plays this on a still-rockin' Sega Genesis with a Sega Power Base Converter, that enables you to play awesome Master System games like R-Type and SpellCaster and also this first Phantasy Star!

Done old school without a guide or the help of the Net, check out my 72 pages of maps and hand-written notes here. It was a challenge but you know The Krush was up to it! And in the end, with the assistance of the one and only hacker supreme Orange Krush behind the controller, Alis and crew endured and triumphed over evil. Eat it, King Lassic!


FEAR EFFECT 1 & 2 (Playstation)

The most Blade Runner goodness on the PS1 are the cel-shaded horror action-adventure duo of the Fear Effect games. If you've missed these in the past you've got to check 'em out!

Fear Effect - In the first of these beautiful cinematic games, series protagonist Hana Tsu-Vachel, a Franco-Chinese mercenary in near-future Hong Kong working for the Hong Kong Triad. She gets herself and her partners Royce and Deke in some serious hot agua when hired to locate the missing daughter of Triad kingpin Mr. Lam, who attributes his fortune and power to a pact he made with demons. Things quickly go even further south when they learn the girl is intended to be used as a human sacrifice in an arcane ritual. Expect lots of unexpected and clever twists and turns in this cyberpunk adventure.

Fear Effect 2: Retro Helix - As a degenerative global pandemic called EINDS (Environmentally Induced Nucleotides Degeneration Syndrome) is exploding, this prequel game shows how the original cast of Hana, Royce and Deke all met. And also introduces a fourth new playable character, the mysterious Rain Qin, an expert hacker and amnesiac. Of course there's a lot more to her than that... but you don't want these stories spoiled for you, dudes and dudettes!

Sure man, these games can definitely get pretty corny at times. But you'll love the great and completely amoral characters and also those gorgeous Playstation graphics. And you'll be happy to hear Fear Effect also uses the same Tank Controls that you loved in Resident Evil!


TEMPEST (Atari Arcade)

Probably the greatest arcade machine ever made!

Atari programmer Dave Theurer had just finished up the hit game Missile Command. His next game was the legendary Tempest. Being the first in the industry to use the just-invented Wells Gardner Quadra-Scan 6100 Vector Monitor, plus his new Superstar Programmer status at Atari for selling over 14,000 units of Missile Command, and his desire to produce an addictive game that can induce trance-like states while playing, Theurer designed this true arcade classic inspired by recurring nightmares he had of monsters climbing out of a hole in the ground.

Tempest is set in outer space, like so many early arcade video games were, and with abstract, vaguely unsettling, three-dimensional color vector graphics. Players control rapidly-moving claw-shaped "blaster" via a unique Spinner Knob, shooting down sci-fi looking "tubes" at twitchy, ever-encroaching, selections of otherworldly enemies. The incredibly fast and addictive gameplay, and the beautiful vector graphics, was exactly what the doctor ordered, and Theurer had the hit he was hoping for. Tempest broke records and forged new technical ground and helped Atari to continue their domination of the exploding arcade scene.

These Tempest game machines push the early model Quadra-Scan Monitors to their limits. And have a nasty reputation for catching on fire. Which would be heartbreaking as Tempest is also one of sweetest looking arcade cabinet designs of all time!

Tempest is sexy, sexy, sexy. Hot stuff indeed!


Stay Tuned For More of Orange Krush's Offline Arcade!

If the Krush ever gets around to writing more, that is!


Orange Krush's Hardwarily Hot Net Rig!

Here on the internet infobahn, every legendary keyboard cowboy has to be ready with the quickdraw custom software and the swiftest of lightning-fast hardware (unless the courts have forbidden them to own or operate a computer or touch tone telephone, that is), and you'd better believe Orange Krush has the latest gear and the highest of high tech!

Grab yourself a Smart Drink or a Think Drink and get ready to expand your neural horizons with a whiff of the killer state-of-the-art apparati here at Casa Krush used daily for elite Gibson barnstorming, websurfing, code crunching, techno music production, and SETI@Home adventures.


Grape iMac G3 (Rev C Model)

Yo yo yo! Check out the Krush's cutting edge Net rig... the Grape iMac G3! The Grapebaby is packing a powerhouse PowerPC 750 (G3) boosted to the sky with 266 MHz, 66 MHz system bus, 6 MB of SGRAM, a full 15-inch shadow-mask CRT screen with a native 800 x 600 pixel resolution, twin Harmon Kardon stereo speakers, state-of-the-art ATI Rage Pro graphics card with 6 MB of SGRAM, and a tray-loading 24x CD-ROM optical drive. And don't forget, all Macs are still Y2K safe! BOOM!

And a so-fast-your-brain-will-melt 56k modem to burn the internet up!

This technological wonder has been seriously overstuffed to the Apple-recommended maximum Memory of 256 MB, is fully AirPort Base Station compatible, and even upgraded from Mac OS 8.5.1 to the ultra-stable and insanely burly Mac OS 8.6!

Acid Burn (Kate to her friends) used an Apple Powerbook Duo 280c in the movie HACKERS, which is a hacking beast with a 33 MHz 68LC040 processor. This Grape iMac has a 333 MHz PowerPC 750 G3 processor... which means this computer has over ten times the processing power! Talk about a super beast! Gibson super computers beware!

ORANGE KRUSH IS KRUSHIN' IT!


Apple USB Mouse M4848 (Grape)

Don't call it an iPuck! This is the sci-fi beauty that dialed up a thousand Earthlinks and surfed a thousand Angelfire homepages! Apple industrial designed this to perfection using translucent plastics of "ice" and the compatible individual computer's fruit flavor. Grape flavor for the Krush, of course! The two-tone roller ball can be witnessed with hypnotic spinning kaleidoscope color array through the mouse's housing as elite assassins wreck corporate I.C.E. (Intrusion Countermeasures Electronics). The perfect mouse for your most intense late night RAID raids!

Don't listen to your friends on the BBS who talk smack on the supposed discomfort of the Apple "Hockey Puck" mouse. Those keyboard crybabies can't handle a little hand cramping?! I say if it's approved by Steve Jobs and Apple's senior mechanical engineer of product design, Abraham Farag, then you just gotta know it's the goods! No UniTrap or iCatch needed! The Apple USB Mouse M4848 is the perfect stylish companion to an elite net jockey's most audacious cracks.


Apple USB Keyboard M4984 (Grape)

When it comes to hands-on control, nothing beats the M4984! USB is the future, man. We're talking Low Bandwidth at 1.5 Mbit/s up to Full Speed power at a full 12 Mbit/s! Sorry SCSI!

Boasting black keys, the same color as stealthjet Lockheed Martin F-117 Nighthawk, this tight and oh-so clicky keyboard is the perfect weapon in your covert stealth operations on the Web. Speaking of USB, these keyboards are rocking a full two East and West style USB ports, one to plug in your Apple USB Mouse M4848 and one for whateverother hot USB gear you want (a TEAC External USB 3.5" Floppy Drive for me).

And the Krush's Apple USB Keyboard M4984 is tastefully color-coordinated in Grape to match the main Mac, of course!


Agfa Snapscan 1212u Flatbed Scanner

A new printer and scanner at Casa Krush means plans to make the return to desktop publishing! Can't say when but I'm betting that we'll be seeing new issues of my zines THE ORANGE MANIFESTO, "CHIPS", WE CAN'T BE SUPPRESSED, and by popular request even a new issue of ACID BURNING. (Sorry, no reprints of previously released issues are available at this time!)

The Agfa Snapscan 1212u Flatbed Scanner has an optical resolution 600 ppi x 1200 ppi and an interpolated resolution of a whopping 9600 ppi x 9600 ppi. With a killer data transfer rate of 1 MBps! And the single-pass scan mode seriously breaks the speed limit at just 3.7 ms/line (gray). Prepare to get plucked from the Blendo Stream and be scanned!


Epson Stylus Color 740 Color Printer

The revolution will be dpi'ed! Speaking of new printers, this is my latest gear to start the Orange Krush Desktop Publishing Empire! With the Stylus Color 740, Epson has modified the Micro Piezo print head to produce smaller and variable-sized dots, resulting in better photo quality and finer detail. This printer takes two ink cartridges, one black and one color (cyan, magenta, and yellow). Hot gear for all your printing needs. Check it out...

This printer is so seriously speedy that printing a Photoshop doc at its highest resolution (1,440 dpi) averages around just under 10 minutes per page! Too sweet!


TEAC External USB 3.5" Floppy Drive

This hot USB Floppy Drive will give you the ability to harness the power of all of those luscious hacker files you've got kicking around on the stacks of 3.5" disks that are sitting in piles around your fresh Netsurfing Workstation (the Krush recommends the Grape iMac G3!). This hot-swappable USB FDD will read and write standard 1.44 MB floppy disks with a blazing fast 500 KBps transfer rates. Still great for backup, transfer and installation of data. And let's face it friends, the CD-ROM tsunami might be here but none of us wants to lose access to our old collections of low-circulation DiskZines like ELECTRIC HOLLYWOOD, DISKWORLD, ACiD PRODUCTIONS, CYBER RAG, STOSSER, and SOFTDISK MAGAZETTE, right?!

Who knows, maybe now that I've got this drive, just for nostalgia's sake I'll even finish my never-completed TOTAL IDIOT DISKMAG I've got sitting on my desk. Even better, I think instead I'll do something new for old school Floppy Diskette loving Netizens like us. You guys like HyperCard as much as the Krush does? I thought so! Watch for my upcoming NEUROBLAST INDUSTRIAL HYPERCARD DISKZINE coming out later this winter!

One more thing about these TEAC External USB 3.5" Floppy Drives - be sure to get the one with the Custom Color Inserts so you can make it match your iMac. Grape for me! That's how Orange Krush rolls!


Rebirth RB-338

There's more to life than just crashin' and decryptin'! When not server surfin' Orange Krush and my technological thunderbox are keeping busy in our off-hours writing and recording some hot British Electro, German Techno, Belgian New Beat, and Chicago-style Acid House jams!

Rebirth RB-338 from Propellerhead Software is the Krush's choice #1 for souped-up software to get those ecstasy-addled dance floors jumping (along with the iMac G3 and a couple other items listed here). This is a brilliant software version of the classic-est of classic Roland synthesizers and drum machines right on the CRT screen! When we're talking about Rebirth RB-338 and other 'grams this cherry, the Orange Krush never runs a cracked version or some demo... Legit Copy only, yo!


Phat-Boy MIDI Controller by KeyFax

Get hands-on control of your Acid House stompers, and literally reach out and touch the grandiose glory that is Propellerhead's Rebirth RB-338, with the KeyFax Phat-Boy! 14 twisty knobs for real-time parameter tweaking of your various MIDI synthesizers and sound modules. And built specifically for Rebirth RB-338!

This wicked little box is the best midi controller that has ever been created by man or beast. When hooked up to a Grape iMac G3 and Propellerhead's Rebirth RB-338 it links directly up with those twin TB-303 groove machines in Rebirth and makes it all come alive under your fingers. The Phat-Boy makes it REAL, my friends! And this thing looks so sexy...just one peek and you'll be rocking to your next techno house jam before you even get to plug it in!


Mark of the Unicorn MIDI Express XT USB

MOTU made this rack-mount USB connector to unite the techworlds of your iMac, your Phat-Boy, and all your other MIDI hardware drum machines / synthesizers. How does it do that? MIDI is the secret sauce! MIDI is a technical standard communications protocol to assure compatibility among electronic musical instruments and lets your kit sync up and get down together. Invented by legendary synth designers Dave Smith and Chet Wood, of Sequential Circuits, and the folks at Roland who then got other big name manufacturers like Yamaha and Oberheim on board for the party, and these days pretty much every electronic musical instrument you buy can rave together!

This rackmount box has a full high-speed 8 independent MIDI jacks in and a full high-speed 8 independent MIDI jacks out with sub-millisecond timing accuracy. And what that means for the Krush's music lab-or-atory is that all the MIDI-enabled hardware synths and drum machines in the studio can link up to the Rebirth RB-338 on the iMac and we can JAM IT!

Point your Netscape browser this way to give your speakers a workout and your ass a reason to get moving with some of my fresh cut Belgian New Beat cuts!


Korg Prophecy Synthesizer

The sci-fi sounds of the Orange Krush studio are coming strong thanks to this silver synth. The hardest of hardware!

Korg's "Virtual Analog" monophonic Multi-Oscillator Synthesis System solo synthesizer. Don't let the diminutive three octives frighten you away from this futuristic silver sci-fi space odyssey! The mythological Korg Prophecy was crafted by the former Sequential Circuits design team who are also responsible for synth icons like the Prophet 5 and Prophet VS. And boasts 37 velocity and aftertouch sensitive keys, a blinky integrated arpeggiator, MIDI In/Out/Thru jacks, and best of all, five slick wave-shaping parameter knobs and a gloriously expressive dual-action Log Ribbon Wheel. The perfect MOSS mechanism for the machine age.

And with the ability to program some of the most euphoric virtual analog synth pads in the universe, the Korg Prophecy will forever remain a faultless space-age tool for musical explorations into alpha-wave, acid trance, and other synthesizer hallucinogenres. Or for crafting those monster dancefloor hits for my fellow self-inflicted mind detonators, infected twisted animators, twisted firestarters. You know who you are!


Tascam 424 MK II Portastudio

When the Krush is laying down the banging tracks it's time to get those scorching songs on cassette tape for future generations! And nothing does it better than the cutting-edge 4-track "Multitrack Master" cassette tape recorder, Tascam 424 MK II Portastudio! A full-function recording studio and mixer with 8 inputs/stereo outputs combined into a single workstation, 4 mono inputs channels, 2 stereo input channels, multiple RCA input-outputs, dB X noise reduction, high speed recording and pitch control.

Some day I'll probably be recording directly onto CD-ROMs, but let's face it, that's not coming anytime soon. And here at Studio Krush... we've got tunes to make!


Gravis GamePad Pro USB

After a stealthy night of net jacking and a morning of techno music production, it's time to give the Grape iMac G3's legendary ATI Rage Pro Graphics Card a workout. And with the help of the Gravis GamePad Pro we always get the job done! Here at the Krush iMac Home Arcade I'm currently blasting through "Shadow of the Cat" in "Unfinished Business," just the first bonus levels in Aspyr Media's big box of better-than-console goodness Mac games, in TOMB RAIDER: THE TRILOGY.

But trying to control Lara Croft with the keyboard is for suckers! Thankfully the Gravis GamePad Pro USB is the perfect solution. Along with a perfectly slightly mushy d-pad and some Sony® styling (eyeball those handles and that pause and a start button placement), the Gravis GamePad Pro boasts a full 8-foot long USB cord (you're not getting that on the PSX!). And pure, perfect, digital control for precision and instantaneous response with four face buttons and four shoulder pads. You'll be raiding tombs like a pro, just like The Krush does!

The Gravis GamePad Pro USB is even purple to match the Grape iMac G3! BOO-YA!


Xircom Portgear 7-Port Powered USB Hub

With all the Krush’s deskloads of high-tech gear designed to enable maximum hackitude and implement a one-man underground art revolution in electronic music recording, desktop publishing (digital and analog formats), and internet communications... it’s going to take a powerful and unifying machine to bring all that together into the iMac G3 nerve center. And that’s where the Xircom Portgear 7-Port Powered USB Hub comes in.

The number Seven is a positive integer prime number that symbolizes spirituality in Pythagorean Numerology. And by the same metaphysical token, Seven powered USB ports at Casa Krush means that the TEAC 3.5" USB Floppy Drive, the MOTU MIDI Express XT, the Agfa Snapscan 1212u Flatbed Scanner, the Epson Stylus Color 740 Color Printer, the Gravis GamePad Pro, and the Apple M4848 USB Mouse and Apple M4984 USB Keyboard can all be plugged into the iMac all at the same time. Orange Krush’s High Tech Temple!

No more hot-swapping required!

Of course I got this Xircom Portgear Hub in glorious purple. Of course! Because a purple aura means creativity, ideas, and enlightenment. And also it looks sweet next to my cyberpunk shrine, the Grape iMac G3! And like Maximum Mike tells us, when you're living on the Edge you've gotta look good doing it!


Stay Tuned For More!

There's still some ultra-elite gear* I still need to scrounge up to make my state-of-the-art Krush Cave complete. But just a matter of time! Watch this web domain and this page for updates as I grab up more gear - the hottest high-tech is always getting added!

* I'm still hoping to get my hands on one of those Tiger Eletronics R-Zone Headgears that Crash Override wears in the climatic final hack of HACKERS. If you've got one hit me up on ICQ or AIM and let me know! My handle is OrangeKRSH.

Orange Krush's Discman

You won't get anywhere in life without some good tunes and every mainframe marauder knows there's nothing better than a selection of flawless compositions to compliment a night of seamless server sluething! Oh sure, you could always listen to your Hackers Soundtrack again. Or your copy of Hellbilly Deluxe for the millionth time. But what if you're looking for something a little less spun-to-oblivion? No doubt you've already tapped out your friends' CD racks and ruined your poor eardrums on their copies of Unleash the Dragon, Risk, In the Life of Chris Gaines, and Jock Rock 2000. So why not do your ears a favor and check out some of the tasty and exotic discs soundtracking many an elite exploit here at Casa Krush?!

Kick back, toss two fresh AA batteries in the Sony D-E441 Discman (the Krush just got one of these silver beauties for my bday, sweet!) and give my selection of freshly-burned CDs a spin!


Belgian New Beat

The coolest form of music known to humankind! Only it's not actually known by many, except the most in-the-know music aficionados of course! And the Krush is going to grok you to the glory that is New Beat right here! This short-lived dance music evolutionary dead-end is a heady mix of old school 80s style new wave in the style of Gary Numan, hi-NRG in the style of Sylvester, EBM in the style of Front 242, and Acid House in the style of Phuture and then slowed to an unmistakable hypnotic crawl between 90bpm and 115bpm. The result was a dark, hypnotic, melencholic, and totally irrisitable dance groove.

Born in the booth at Ancienne Belgique club in Antwerp Belgium by DJ Dikke Ronny (literally "Fat Ronny"), when the DJ played the 45 rpm EBM record "Flesh" by A Split-Second at 33 rpm, with the turntable's pitch control set to +8. And New Beat was born. And it exploded like wildfire.

At New Beat's height of popularity in Belgian across Ghent, Brussels and Antwerp, hastily-crafted New Beat songs were packing nightclubs, topping radio charts, and dominating youth fashion trends nation-wide. So widespread was this cultural movement and so dominant was the unique form of New Beat Fashion that cemetaries were looted by Belgian club kids for vintage ceramic photo plaques on headstones, a popular fashion accessory in the New Beat world.

The best producers in this hypnotic and addictive (and most excellent!) musical form include Jo Casters, Herman Gillis, Roland Beelen, J.P. Bulté, Maurice Engelen, and Nikkie Van Lierop who were writing, recording and pressing new 12" single every single week for the Belgian DJs to debut that weekend. These songs were often shrouded in mystery and listed under entirely different artist's name(s) as well. New Beat burned hot in the Belgian nightclub scene for just around 2 glorious years before combusting in 1990, sacrificed by the very people who had created and fueled the movement, and then giving birth first to two other short-lived genres of club music, Hard Beat and Skizzo, and then to some of the biggest club sounds of the 1990s Techno, Eurodance, Trance, and Industrial Dance music. And inspiring future generations of down-pitched genres like Chopped and Screwed Hip Hop and the Gen Z home remix staple known as Slowed + Reverb.

Here's an 8-track mixtape of New Beat songs that the Krush thinks you need to check out.

Flesh (33rpm + 8% pitch) by A Split-Second
Move Your Body by 101
Virgin In D Sky's (Special Adventure Mix) by In-D
Ghostdance by Ghostdance
Mr New Beat by Hypnoteck
Move Your Ass And Feel The Beat by Erotic Dissidents
Acid Queen by Major Problem
Voices by Neon

And go check out Orange Krush's dabbling in the New Beat genre here and here and here and here. Hope you all like the Krush's loving New Beat tributes to these wicked old school jams!


Billy Idol's "Cyberpunk"

The future has imploded into the present. Megacorporations are the new government. Computer generated info-domains are the new frontiers. Information is power and currency in the virtual world we inhabit. And the new battlefields are people’s minds and souls.

The opening manifesto to Billy Idol's June 1993 Cyberpunk concept album rings ever more true as the years pass. The future has imploded into the present. Megacorproations' money and influence dominates politicians and policy, while they collect and traffic our personal information for power and currency. Individuals are kept in a state of perpetual Acute Stress Disorder through shell-shock headlines and addictive-by-design programs. Our very minds are clouded in a fog of misinformation, group-think, and purposefully ambiguous and contradictory data. Idol clamined that, through the proliferation of affordable and ever-available access to the internet, we are all becoming cyborgs. And that the only way to survive the digital age, to maintain our individuality in the face of the Machiavellian influence of megacorproations, is by learning everything you can about technology and the cyberpunk world we now live in. "I’m so fucking into the internet. The internet is punk rock!” Idol declared to Gareth Branwyn in 1993. So he made and album about it.

Cyberpunk is a concept album inspired by neo-futuristic cyberdelic culture and is a unique departure from his previous efforts, mixing computerized sequencing, sampling, and electronica rhythms with his signature "aw yeah, rock n' fokin roll, right?" style. Idol enthusiastically embraced the techno-evangelism ethos and adopted the tools of high tech organized dissent in desktop publishing, home music recording, hypermedia and the internet. He signed up on The WELL BBS on USENET, promoted Jaime Levy's Electronic Hollywood diskzine, Boing Boing and FutureCulture Digital Newspaper to his fanbase.

Idol wanted to make a “overground-underground” album, incubated over the internet and recorded at home studios on Apple Macintosh computers. He excitedly talked about how quickly he could make new albums and circumvent the traditional record industry cycles. And about how he could connect directly to his fans via BBS and electronic mail. He was among the first ever celebrities to publicly advertize his email address so he could connect directly with fans. Years, almost a full decade, before most Americans even had email. So committed to the idea of this new high tech medium and the new media it all spawned, Idol included in a special edition first-of-its-kind album with an included 3.5" Floppy multimedia diskette made by HyperCard innovator, Jaime Levy. In a press release for the album, Idol’s record company claimed the there was also a Cyberpunk comic in the works and talks with video game makers and a major motion picture director. Idol was all-in on this new future.

Musically, Cyberpunk's embracing of down-tempo musical fusion of electronica, rhythmic sequencing, hypnotic club beats, and rock guitar was further than Idol had ever ventured away from his typical pop-rock. A departure for casual radio listeners of his pure rock tunes like "Cradle of Love," Idol had actually been melding the styles of Kraftwerk and Suicide into his work and been focused on getting his records played by DJs in the club scene for years. From Dub mixes of Generation X songs all the way back in 1977, to partnering with Giorgio Moroder’s protege Keith Forsey to produce his solo albums, to the "Vital Idol" Remixes that spawned the music video version of "Flesh for Fantasy," to the dance beat and synth-heavy production of his "Whiplash Smile" album 7 years previous.

Going full-in on the idea of "virtual reality music" Idol and producer Keith Forsey recorded the album to achieve maximum effect with immersive ambisonic full-sphere 360 surround sound in mind. Cyberpunk was recorded using BiNaurel Heads and also a state-of-the-art Roland Sound Space RS-8048 stereo spatialization unit which can place sound anywhere in 3D space using just a simple two speaker setup. This unique, rare, and very expensive rackmount box can also be heard on Roger Waters "Amused to Death" album, on ambiant / alpha-wave artist Kohsei Morimoto’s "Chaos Zone," Tool’s “Undertow,” and in Hideo Kojima’s legendary tech-noir game "Snatcher" for the Sega CD. The Roland Sound Space RS-8048 is definitely cool stuff and decades ahead of its time! The Krush definitely hopes to get his hands on one of those RSS units someday!

Idol's live shows for Cyberpunk were just as ambitious and unique. Featuring a high-tech computerized aesthetic, the show even had computer engineers on stage whom Idol fashioned as regular band members, creating seriously dope live "Blendo" visuals and Swarm-Cams (by Cybertribe), and light shows controlled by robotic telemetry. Those live-cam feeds and live Video Toastering, combined with orgasmic cyberspace style stage illumination, achieved some totally phantasmagoric stage lighting. Idol adopted sleek, futuristic cyberpunk fashions from Stephen Sprouse and Paul Smith. And even changed his signature hair style to his new cyberpunk look with bleach blonde dreadlocks.

Cyberpunk landed at an exciting dawn of the emerging World Wide Web, released just 5 months after the first commercial web-browser Mozilla / Netscape was launched. In 1993 the internet was still underground and completely foreign to most people, only 22% of households even had a home computer, according to the US Census, and those who had internet access was such a small number they didn't even think to ask Americans if they had access to the internet until 1997 (by '97 a full 36.6% of households had a computer, with only 17% having internet access). Idol's obsession with how the internet was going to bring about global sociocultural changes, was the perfect tool for organizational dissent, was going to rapidly turn us all into human-machine cyborgs, and that the future of music and art making would mutate everything about those industries forever, just like Punk Rock had democratized music in the 1970s, and his predictions that the internet would soon be the dominant tool in people's everyday lives... all flew right over most people's heads.

And everyone hates this album.

They're all wrong.

The album, tour, and interviews can all get a little corny at times, Billy Idol is a goofball with a limited understanding of the technology he was excited about and the cyber culture he was evangelizing. And because it was released one year after albums like Psalm 69 and Experience, Cyberpunk's attempt to sound like something truly new seemed a bit flaccid. To most, Idol's sudden strange and inelegant obsession with cyber culture and all things high-tech came off as disingenuous and fraudulent. And man, those dreadlocks didn't do him any favors, either.

Although he got a minor hit song from the album, Cyberpunk was such a commerical and critical flop, and so much of trainwreck image-wise for Idol that he still hasn't lived it down. All these years later being heralded as the "Least Essential Concept Album of the 1990s" by The A.V. Club and grabbing the #5 spot on Q Magazine's "50 Worst Albums Of All Time" list. And worst of all, Idol was excommunicated from the cyber culture he loved. Run out of the WELL alt.cyberpunk USENET newsgroup by regular posters. Publicly derided by his cyberdelic mentor, Boing Boing's Mark Frauenfelder. And even mocked in an interview by NEUROMANCER author William Gibson, the godfather of the cyberpunk genre.

Idol didn't release another album for another 12 years.

No question about it, Cyberpunk a fucking disaster.

But it is also TOTALLY. FUCKING. COOL.

Gotta give it up for Cyberpunk's earnestness and ambition! And the total punk rock Do-It-Yourself ethic which he threw himself headlong into in creating this completely derided album and his self-realized weird brand of cyber culture.

Idol said in an interview the week Cyberpunk was debuting, “I have never given a fuck what people think of me. Isn’t that obvious? CYBERPUNK is my reality, my passion and my journey. And I’m sharing it with all my fans. Fuck anyone who doesn’t get it.”

Damn right.


The Plasmatics

Somehow even here on the Net the coolest punk band ever doesn't get the props they deserve! So Orange Krush is going to change that!

Shock troops in the war on complacency with a shared revulsion for the pathetic lethargy of mid-70s rock, and a willingness to destroy anything that got in their way, the Plasmatics exploded on the 1978 New York punk scene, and the world, like a thermonuclear bomb.

They stormed the stages at the dawn of the US "new music" scene with their unique take on speedy, searing, intensely hyperactive punk rock and the most diverse and stupefying live show anywhere. And released four incredibly influential EPs and five mind-blowing full-length albums. A spasmodic end-all be-all detonation of rock and roll, skewering corrupt sleazy politicans, repulsive conformists, unscrupulous pigs, insipid hypocrites, and nausea-inducing brain-rotting consumer culture. Each Plasmattics album is filled with such catastrophic urgency and delivered with such extinctive energy that every song feels like this apocalyptic band are playing the final chords as the universe implodes.

Unduly talented, absurdly sharp, high-concept guerrilla-warfare art revolutionaries armed with amps and instruments. And also live chainsaws, shotguns, sledgehammers, and literal TNT. The Plasmatics were a virtuoso wrecking ball on the world of societal compliance and a countercultural rag tag assemblage of the greatest rock and roll freakshows ever. The Plasmatics sounded and looked like no other band before, or since.

Rail-thin 6'7" blue-mohawked cross-dressing guitarist Richie Stotts with his trademark Flying-V, high heels, and a nurse uniform. Jean Beauvoir, on bass, a Chicago-born Haitian multi-instrumentalist musical prodigy (and former singer in the doo wop group The Flamingos) in a white tuxedo with tails and a bleached white mohawk. Before Beauvoir the band had a brief but important member of the band, Chosei Funahara, a shave-headed Japanese bass player / video photographer who kicked off songs with a quintessentially iconic Ramones-style one-two-three-four count off "ichi ni san shi!" The stalwart and total maniac drummer Stu Deutsch, who pounded out the blasting beats on his classic kit and also the synthdrums, back then a rarity in the world of rock. Wes Beech, the second half of the Plasmatics dynamic guitar duo, a spikey-haired sneering scientist who swaggered Plasmatics stages and album covers with a sci-fi looking Sardonyx guitar, which was laden with onboard effects, and enabled the turbo-charged guitar player to create weird sounds no other player could.

And all propelled into spotlights, chaos, danger and on-stage destruction by the twin visions of singer / macrobiotic chef / kink performance artist Wendy O. Williams and manager Rod Swenson, an art renegade with a Masters in Fine Art from Yale University and the mestro behind the Times Square show Captain Kink's Sex Fantasy Theater.

The Plasmatics live shows were a famous cyclone of anarchic shock, mental stupefaction, and ravaging demolition. With Wendy sledgehammering TV sets and transistor radios, performing splatter surgeries, chainsawing guitars, shooting blank-filled shotguns, and literally blowing up Cadillacs on stage wearing little more than shaving cream or her legendary nipple-tape. Audiences - whether in clubs like CBGBs, or on TV shows like ABC's Saturday Night Live knock-off Fridays, or sold out show at the LA Sports Area poisioning the minds of unsuspecting Kiss and Motley Crue fans, or on MTV driving a schoolbus through a tower of TV sets (until it was pulled from air over concerns of "ultra-violence"), or at a surprise free car-detonating show on New York City's Pier 62 - were left completely shattered.

Although I like the early line up best, and love the punky albums they produced, "New Hope for the Wretched" and "Beyond the Valley of 1984," it's simply impossible to deny that the Plasmatics often-overlooked 1987 concept album "Maggots: The Record" is the greatest record ever recorded.

Now go buy some albums!


Techmaster P.E.B.

It's Time to Jam! Legendary producer Techmaster PEB, the godfather of the Miami Bass sound, and famous destroyer of even the most high-end of boom car speakers, is known for pushing the lowest of the low-end frequencies. His pivotal 1991 album Bass Computer became the ultimate sub-woofer test weapon in strip-mall parking lot soundoffs and mid-90s international sound-pressure competitions. And is the first album that came with a soon-to-be-ubiquitous CAUTION: ULTRA LOW BASS MAY DAMAGE SPEAKERS warning. Fusing Kraftwerk's highbrow European robot techno art pop with Maggotron's heavily breakdancable Electro Funk style and Luke Skyywalker's pounding four-on-the-floor dirty dancefloor Booty Bass audio, for a hyper smooth electronic sound. Dripping with heavy ass bass that will detonate your MTXs and Crutchfield amps and threaten to shatter your car's rear window.

WARNING: SUB-WOOFER DESTROYING ULTRA LOW BASS
Techmaster P.E.B. - Techno Bass Beats
Techmaster P.E.B. - Computer Love
Techmaster P.E.B. - D.P.E.
Techmaster P.E.B. - Time To Jam

And the deep bass revolution had begun! With hundreds of cassettes and CDs flooding the market adorned with pictures of boomin' system hoopties and bikini-clad hoochies on the covers. Some good stuff can be found in the genre if you dig deep into the deep sound (particularly from PEB's oftentimes collaborator DJ Magic Mike)... but when it comes to the Krush's D-E441 Discman, none do it better than Techmaster PEB!


Stay Tuned For More of Orange Krush's Discman!

The Krush is outtie! More Krush approved tunes will come. But in the meantime I'll be chillin' at the crib, surfing the net and cracking codes so it might be a sec. Don't be buggin' out about it!

Orange Krush's Book Club

Enjoy this Krush-approved selection of reading for your off-line hours! These are some ultra-fine and forever-fresh comics you probably have missed, even here on the World Wide Web! These are not the popular corporate superhero treadmill titles or those Seattle scrub grunge comics your snobby SubPop friends are reading. These are just really good, radical sci-fi and psyche genre fictions that will give you what you want. Fortunately for you these titles are pretty unloved stuff by the plebes and public-at-large so you should be able to score second-hand copies of these in the comic shop cheap boxes, or at some dirty thrift stores. Or for you e-commerce folks, you can find them all for just a buck or two an issue online. Totally worth checking 'em out, Phreaks!


GRIMJACK
by John Ostrander and artists Timothy Truman, Tom Sutton, Tom Mandrake, Steve Pugh, Flint Henry.

Listen up fellow hackers, Tech Noir alert! The first, and still the best, of the legendary 1980s "grim and gritty" books. GRIMJACK is a sword-for-hire assassin mercenary in the multi-dimentional city of Cynosure, a place where all dimensions meet. In Cynosure crossing town might mean crossing five or six different realities and taking the wrong turn might get you forever lost in another reality when the back alley shifts out of phase. It's a city teeming with lowlifes of more flavors than you can probably stomach, from gods to aliens to mutants to magicians to demons, and everyone is looking to screw the next for a cheap buck or a quick thrill. Operating out of Munden's, a dive bar in the worst part of town, GRIMJACK is the damaged old veteran of a life of violence who is willing to take the dirty jobs no one else will. Futurist and multiversalist noir at its '80s grimiest best, mi amigos!

GRIMJACK originally appeared as a backup series in First Comics' STARSLAYER issue #10 but quickly got his own series in 1984, which ran for 81 issues (plus an additional mini-series and an original graphic novel). Co-creator and series artist Timothy Truman's first 18 issues of the series are the most celebrated issues but there are some great runs further on in the series drawn by the excellent Tom Mandrake and a particularly exceptional run by Flint Henry from issue #55 to #81. Grab 'em all, you'll be glad you did. Series writer John Ostrander would later re-launch the SUICIDE SQUAD comic with author Kim Yale and Luke McDonnell to massive acclaim. But GRIMJACK is still his best. In more recent years Ostrander and Truman have reunited for a few more excellent GRIMJACK mini-series, published by IDW. And it was only a matter of time before the IP-hungry Hollywoods got their hands on it, recently the Russo Brothers (of AVENGERS ENDGAME fame) announced they are developing GRIMJACK as a series for Amazon. So be sure to grab yourself copies or this excellent series before the prices go up.

Don't sleep on the goods, Orange Krush recommends you spend some offline hours checking out GRIMJACK and getting lost in the pan-dimensional city of Cynosure. It's all that and a bag of chips!


MAI, THE PSYCHIC GIRL
by Kazuya Kudō and artist Ryoichi Ikegami.

The Krush knows you like the Manga and the Japanimations, I mean, everything from Japan is phat with a capital P, am I right?! MAI, THE PSYCHIC GIRL (舞) is among the very first Manga series published by in North America by Viz in 1989 (along with AREA 88 and LEGEND OF KAMUI). This beautiful and melancholy series stars 14-year-old Mai Kuju, a girl with a special psychic gift. At first her newfound telekenetic powers are a source of amusement for the young girl but she is soon discovered by a shadowy organization known as the Wisdom Alliance, who want to use her and her unique powers as weapons in a clandestine war on the governments of the world. Psychic Cyberpunk, my friends!

When Mai resists their first abduction the Alliance sends four other powerful psychic (and slightly psychotic) children to capture her. This all-out war of psychic kids (and the horrible adults behind them) juxtapozes the violent and kinetic action throughout with utterly peaceful and whimsical moments. Beautifully drawn by artist Ryoichi Ikegami, who is known for gorgeous art on popular 80s Manga series SANCTUARY and CRYING FREEMAN. Writer Kazuya Kudo went on to do the PINEAPPLE ARMY series. MAI, THE PSYCIC GIRL is definitely a worthy read for fans of the movie SCANNERS, FIRESTARTER or the classic Chris Claremont / Bill Sienkiewicz run on NEW MUTANTS.

It will probably be easiest to find these in the kinda bogus three volume PERFECT COLLECTION series that came out in 1996. But the earlier four volume VIZ reprints from 1989 and also the Titan Comics books from the UK are way nicer collections! Go start hunting these old comics down, my fellow manga enthusiasts, net evangelists, and hacktivists!


STRANGE DAYS
by Peter Milligan with Brendan McCarthy and Brett Ewins.

Simply put, the coolest comic ever made, home skillets!

So what's the dealio on STRANGE DAYS? SD is an anthology of beautiful, bizarre, and bodacious comics by the true stars of the British comics scene, Peter Milligan (X-STATIX) and Brendan McCarthy (MAD MAX: FURY ROAD) and Brett Ewins (BAD COMPANY). The comic features three main series plus a number of crazy-cool 1-page strips like TALES FROM THE 4TH DIMENSION, KRAZY FOAM, 3 WISE MEN, TALES FROM UTOPIA, and EINSTEIN'S BLUE BABY. The most brilliantly over-stuffed 36 pages comic issues ever. STRANGE DAYS is a true treasure trove of riches, psychedelic trips, bizarre and wonderful, high 80s fashion comics. Your BATMAN comics might be aiight, but these three issues will give you more comic thrills than 100 issues of those comics ever could.

PARADAX! - The super-powered adventures of the peroxide poseur, PARADAX, comics original narcissistic media superbrat. Fun-loving loser and taxi cab driver with more looks than brains, Al Cooper finds a book that grants him superheroic powers in the form of a bright yellow skintight suit. And he proceeds to make the most of it by phasing into his neighbor's bedrooms, climbing on the back of the TV media machine to super stardom, and drinking beer and screwing around with his coolest-girlfriend-in-comics Kooper Keen. What's a more important deed of derring-do for a young superhero, battling an array of stylish and super-powered buffoons like Dr. Sex, Jack Empty, and Shudder and Twitch or going on TV and talking about it? Vapors from this post-modern, stylish, and cynical strip would go on to be relied on heavily in books like co-author Peter Milligan's own X-STATIX series, and also popular titles like KICK-ASS, THE BOYS, THE AUTHORITY, and also a whole lot of different comics by Grant Morrison, particularly ZENITH, MARVEL BOY, and DOOM PATROL.

With great power comes... a great opportunity for fame, riches, sex and stardom... !

JOHNNY NEMO - New London in 2921 AD is an over-crowded high-tech dystopian wasteland of chemical-born mutants, future-drug junkies, fascist urban hunters, religious cults who worship Bing Crosby's left testicle, and every form of scumbag you can imagine in between. And that's just the way hard-boiled existentialist punk private eye Johnny Nemo likes it. Freakin’ awesome funnybook stuff here!

Raymond Chandler would probably roll in his grave at JOHNNY NEMO. Or he'd climb right out of that grave to share a strong smoke and a stiff drink with series creators Milligan and Ewins. Yo, now that's a night out at the lounge the Krush would want to be spinning some fresh Acid Jazz or Electro Swing at!

FREAKWAVE - Prime surrealist apocalyptic surf comics! In the not-so-distant future world of FREAKWAVE the very land itself has become so toxic from mankind's misdeeds and the apocalyptic "long night of doom" that the only hope of survival left is for those who can manage to scratch out a meager life sailing the seas scavenging for trash. Surf-nomad The Drifter is the stern-eyed protag of the piece but this strip delves so far beyond a mere Mad Max riff, as McCarthy applied an anti-narrative approach inspired by the newly exploding '80s art of VHS music video editing combined with art experimentalist Brion Gysin's "cut-up" and Max Ernst collage art techniques, to craft a world of the cyborgic Captain Roaring, who has had his face rebuilt using saxophonic surgery, floating church temples built in the husks of World War II submarines, psychedelic pirates in gigantic floating Zardoz-inspired Mad Hatter heads, makeshift boat cities built around oil rigs formed into JFK sculptures, and psychic seaweed chewing Shamen. All lushly drawn and painted in drop-a-tab ecstasy-laced waves of colors.

McCarthy referred to FREAKWAVE as "surreal collage held together by the beat." The man is straight stylin'!

Years later the whole "Mad Max on the water" pitch of this strip was swiped dirty for Kevin Costner's famously harsh cinematic bomb, WATERWORLD. Puh-Lease, don't give me that crap! No stress, years later Brendan McCarthy's righteous screenplay for the mega-blockbuster MAX MAX: FURY ROAD would prove to one and all that no one does it better than McCarthy does.

So that's the 411 on STRANGE DAYS! If you groove this three issue mini-series you should also track down the first three parts of FREAKWAVE published in VANGUARD ILLUSTRATED #1-3 (Pacific Comics, 3 issues), more peroxide private dick Nemo in JOHNNY NEMO MAGAZINE (Eclipse Comics, 3 issues), PARADAX! (Vortex Comics, 2 issues), SKREEMER (DC Comics, 6 issues), and you'll also really like ROGAN GOSH (Vertigo Comics, one shot) too. Also a lot of the STRANGE DAYS strips have been reprinted in THE BEST OF MILLIGAN & MCCARTHY hardcover (Dark Horse Comics), along with other good shiznit!


SHADE THE CHANGING MAN
Vol 1 by Steve Ditko with dialog by Michael Fleisher.
Vol 2 by Peter Milligan and artists Chris Bachalo, Jamie Hewlett, Sean Phillips, Philip Bond, Colleen Doran.
Vol 3 by Cecil Castellucci and artist Marley Zarcone.

Dope stuff, my dudes and dudettes! Get ready for a slammin' trippy brainfuck of a ride! This multi-decade series of series mutates and transmogrifies through three different idiosyncratic incarnations. All of them are off the chain! And a high Orange Krush recco if you like highbrow / lowbrow oddball comics like the Krush does! These series are best read in the order in which they were published.

Vol 1 (DC Comics 1977, 8 issues) - You'll know comic legend Steve Ditko as writer/artist and creator of some of the best comic characters ever made, including SPIDER-MAN, DOCTOR STRANGE, and THE QUESTION. Ditko, a reclusive genius, weirdo and social outcast, brought both an unsettling atmosphere and intense outsider otherness to his work. And Ditko's neo-psychedelic art and concepts also brought comics out of the "kiddie stuff" ghetto to the 60s countercultural Acid Generation, from Ken Keasy (ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST) to one of the first major psychedelic rock concerts, led by Jefferson Airplane, which was advertized as "A Tribute Concert for Dr. Strange," in San Francisco 1965. As the mid-1970s arrived, so did Ditko's next utterly unique new series, SHADE THE CHANGING MAN.

Rac Shade, a secret agent of an Earth-adjacent dimension called Meta, has been framed for treason and sentenced to death. Escaping to Earth by crossing through the dimensional barrier between our worlds, the Zero-Zone also known as the "Area of Madness," after stealing back the weirdtech M-Vest (the Miraco-Vest) from Meta-ian terrorists. Shade tries to clear his name while being pursued across dimensions by both criminals and the law. When confronted, the M-Vest alters Shade's appearance based on his opponent's fears, and also generates a physical embodiment of the emotional state of its wearer. Cool, weird stuff. Definitely not your typical superhero fare! Even the series logo, created by superstar designer Gaspar Saladino, is weird and unsettling.

Ditko used SHADE as a vehicle for his dark philosophical musings about the failings of society, government authority, love lost, corruption in all its many insidious forms, and crumbling idealism. All while his corprorate editors attempted to reign him in, in the hopes of getting a re-hashed version of DOCTOR STRANGE out of him. It's a strained, at times awkward, but always fascinating beast of a title. And as you can imagine, this offbeat series didn't last long. But left behind an indelible impression on anyone who read it.

Vol 2 (DC/Vertigo Comics 1990, 70 issues) - Peter Milligan, one of the post-modern weirdness-virtuosos behind STRANGE DAYS, returns with this early 90's resurrection and regeneration of Ditko's unsung classic. Add in character designs by Milligan's co-collaborator on STRANGE DAYS Brendan McCarthy, and also main series artist a pre-fame Chris Bachalo, and a full 70 issues of unfettered delirium with the lid off... and it's a match made in high-weirdness heaven.

Shade's arrival on Earth via the M-Vest, through the Zero-Zone's Area of Madness, traps Rac in the body of serial killer. And that crossing has allowed the Zero Zone's growing tide of madness to bleed out and across the world, infecting Earth with reality-altering insanity. This series' co-lead character Kathy George, who was on-site to witness the execution of Shade's new body for the murder of her parents, gets wrapped up in a transmutational reality-warping relationship with Shade instead. Kathy is one of the best characters in all of comics. Complex, heroic, flawed, strong, damaged, inquisitive, selfish, altruistic, strange. And also barely holding on to her sanity as all of reality crumbles.

The flashy stuff in this series is all this madness manifesting in the real world, ever-shifting alter egos, adventures with sentient garbage heaps, other-dimensional aliens, temporal regressions, abducted celestials, unruly bikers, mind-altering hotels, and James Joyce and Ernest Hemmingway. But what the book really is about is these characters' transforming identities - for Shade, extra complicated by multiple and ever-shifting bodies, and for Kathy as she relearns who she is and rebuilds herself after tragic losses and amid these new ever-altering realities. The constantly mutating and evolving relationships between these rich characters is what truly elevates SHADE THE CHANGING MAN above pretty much any other comic made in the 1990s.

Vol 3 SHADE THE CHANGING GIRL (DC/Young Animal 2018, 12 issues + 1 Special + 6 issues) - Shade returned 22 years later with a new series, SHADE THE CHANGING GIRL. Written by multi-award winning author / director / musician / awesome comic dork Cecil Castellucci, who is a best selling author of young adult novels. Cecil Castellucci brings a great high school high-teen-drama flavor to the series while maintaining the full-on psychedelic and dream-like surrealism of the previous series. With effortlessly charming and psychotronic pop art by the immensely talented Marley Zarcone and colorist Kelly Fitzpatrick, the series delves into depression, schizophrenia, identity and self discovery, idolitry, xenophobia, and societal alienation. And... reality-altering madness from the Zero-Zone leaking out into the world, of course.

Meta-ian alien teen Loma steals the M-Vest from a museum on her homeworld to replicate the adventures of her Meta-ian poet and adventurer idol, Rac Shade. Transporting her consciousness through the Zero-Zone and into the comatose body of a literally brain-dead 16-year-old Earthling named Megan Boyer, the worst bully in the entire school who is left for dead by her teammates on the high school swim team after a drug overdose. As if the interpersonal complications of awakening in the pubescent body of a teenager everyone despises aren't tortuous enough, the Meta police are in pursuit, an inter-dimentional war is brewing, and there's that pesky existence-transforming Madness that keeps spilling out everywhere too.

The first 12 issues are collected in SHADE THE CHANGING GIRL VOLUME 1 and SHADE THE CHANGING GIRL VOLUME 2. The Special is collected in YOUNG ANIMAL MILK WARS. And the final 6 issues are collected in SHADE THE CHANGING WOMAN.


Stay Tuned For More of Orange Krush's Book Club!

If the Krush ever gets around to writing more, that is! Until then, Keep It Real, homies!

Here for Hacks?! Now of course the Krush can't be broadcasting The Adventures of Grandmaster Hack on the Wheels of Steel on out to the whole information infobahn that is the World Wide Web. I mean, get real!

So instead of delving into the covert art of net ninjutsu or the web wizards behind it, here on the Orange Krush Homepage we're going to talk about the killer quadrennial party I host with TERMINAL VELOCITY for the information super highway's most elite and flavorific net jockies and code crackers on this hyperlink expressway... the WIPEOUT CYBERDELIA!


This high-tech Hacktivismo Hackstock, a righteous assemblage of the hottest personas and personalities on the Net today! Inspired by the super sah-weet Cyberdelia nightclub in the movie HACKERS - you know the one - the banging techno, the quarter-pipe roll-in for rollerbladers, the wall of CRT monitors, the deconstructed robots, and the the gigantic videogame screen playing WIPEOUT! (check out the hackerscurator.com for more on the film's fashions, locations, crew, and tech)! Just like in the flick, the KRUSH / VELOCITY WIPEOUT CYBERDELIA is a place of elite hacker unification, a joining together for web-centric and flavorful Netizens and Phreaks for a night of cyber-age revelry.

Featuring a wall-sized 10-foot Wraithveil Rear Projection Screen - WIPEOUT and WIPEOUT XL running on OG Playstation hardware (and WIPEOUT OMEGA on PS4) projected with 3200 Lumens LED optical projector.


Here's some details for those of you who missed 'em. You've got another quadrennial to get your hardware up to class and your rep up to spec for the next one!


WIPEOUT2017

The debut of the WIPEOUT CYBERDELIA came right in the midst of a year of violent protests, frat bros in rompers, election interference from foreign powers, Unicorn Frappuccinos, the #MeToo Movement, platform Crocs, and totally insane ballistic missile posturing with North Korea.

What this year needed was a perfect distraction. And so this legendary meeting was born!

Aside from dope tunes and a wall-sized 10-foot Wraithveil Rear Projection Screen to play WIPEOUT, WIPEOUT XL and WIPEOUT OMEGA on this event also feature three original Wipeout-themed reaction-time-improving Think Drink / Smart Drink cocktails, Electro-Bolt, Missile, and a non-alcoholic Shield all created by hacker supreme and mixologist TERMINAL VELOCITY for this party.

This event's flyer, like flyers for all the best '90s raves, has almost no useful information on it whatsoever and is mostly unreadable thanks to DR★'s super dope Wipeout typefaces. Hackers do it in the dark, home slice!

In order to attend this event guests were required to get details by physically placing a long-distance phone call to the Krush's temporary burner answering machine at the (641) area code in Central Ohio. The info on that answering machine was only available for two weeks. For those elite hackers who had missed the answering machine details, we launched a last-minute bootleg-GeoCities containing Cyberdellia 2017 details. Here's a screenshot:



HACKER ROLL CALL

Your Hosts:

ORANGE KRUSH
TERMINAL VELOCITY

Hacker Roll Call:

CHAIN WHIPLASH
DOT MATRIX
DANGER ZERO
NEON666
PHREAKAZOID
BUTTERFLY
THE CLEANER
MARV
FIRESTARTER
SEXY NURSE
ZERO
VIX

Peep these photos from the event... but keep 'em downlow!

  

  

  

  

  

  

WIPEOUT2021


Four years later the WIPEOUT CYBERDELIA returned! Yo, that's just what you do for a quadrennial party!

A true cyberpunk time to be alive, twenty twenty one, a science fiction year for sure. Orange skies, four million dead and counting, stir-crazy people balancing on stacks of milk crates, Boston's famous 10-feet-wide house sells for a ridiculous $1.25 million, domestic terrorists staging a violent coup at the US Capitol, Bernie and his mittens, gasoline hoarders filling up trashbags.

To ensure safety during an exacting time, this event was invite-only and only for the hackers who used that burner answering machine four years earlier and who either attended the first event, or had attempted to be at the inaugural assemblage. Clearly, only the elitest of the elite net jockies!

The wall-sized 10-foot Wraithveil Rear Projection Screen returned (uh... no doi!) and another three original Wipeout-themed reaction-time-improving Think Drink / Smart Drink cocktails c/o hacker supreme and mixologist TERMINAL VELOCITY. Rockets, Mines, and a non-alcoholic Auto Pilot Engaged created specifically for this party. And WIPEOUT, WIPEOUT XL and WIPEOUT OMEGA on the best of original and modern hardwares.

HACKER ROLL CALL

Your Hosts:

ORANGE KRUSH
TERMINAL VELOCITY

Hacker Roll Call:

CHAIN WHIPLASH
DOT MATRIX
DANGER ZERO
NEON666
GATECRASHER
PHREAKAZOID
BUTTERFLY
THE CLEANER
SEXY NURSE
SPICY GINGER
ZERO
VIX
LIME SHOCK
2K&JUAN

Here are fresh high-cyber-fashion photos from the event and also the duo of top secret invites, hacked directly into attendees email accounts, and complete with a little bit of SFW house-made ASCII porn...

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
HARDWARE_CONFIG
Probing CPU...
CPU Type: P6 Intel (TM) x86 Microprocessor
CPU Clock Rate: 233 MHz
FSB Speed: 66 MHz
Base Memory Size: 120 MB
Floppy config. Drive A: 1.4 MB (3.5 inch)
Modem config: 28.8 BPS
PC817417: Found
COM1 at Port Address: 3F8 is enabled
Enslave CPU + Run: Hack_The_Planet
Enable: wipE’out” 2021

If configuration is correct press ENTER
or CTRL+BREAK to quit

ENTER

Loading...

Yo yo, my fellow Netizens and Phreaks! You have proven to be Elite so you’re getting this invitation to bring your fleshmeat to the FLESHMEET.

In honor of the historic 20th anniversary of Isotope, the counter culture underground’s club of clubs, we’re opening up the Cyberdelia Arcade butterzone once again with the hackers’ choicest of softworks run on the world’s fastest OG hardware. WIPEOUT, WIPEOUT XL and WIPEOUT OMEGA on a 10-foot Wraithveil Rear Projection Screen projected with the power of a 3200 Lumens Light-Emitting Diode Projector. This is the e-invite you’ve been waiting for!

Isotope 20th Anniversary
Cyberdelia Arcade Fleshmeet
Saturday, June 19th. 7pm.
Isotope. San Francisco

Your Hosts:

ORANGE KRUSH
TERMINAL VELOCITY

Hacker Roll Call:

CHAIN WHIPLASH
DOT MATRIX
DANGER ZERO
NEON666
GATECRASHER
PHREAKAZOID
BUTTERFLY
THE CLEANER
SEXY NURSE
SPICY GINGER
ZERO
VIX
LIME SHOCK
2K&JUAN

To reduce the dangers of 2021 malware this Fleshmeet is for known Phreaks and Netizens only, of the Full-Vax, Mask-Centric set. Life is RISC, keep it off the BBSes and IRCs.

Check it - We’re not talking about your mom’s Avon party here! This is the fleshmeet for the most elite CPU booters on the net, so leave normie threads to the trashfile, it’s time to sport your tastiest ravetastic cyberpunk gears.

This e-mail is programmed to self-delete in 32 seconds and run our custom whitehat script that will log your computer into the backdoor of our favorite superuser account to peep the party password...

Orange Krush & Terminal Velocity
KRUSH / VELOCITY

Enslave CPU + Run: Elite_Hack
Logging On...
PC0000000: Found
Probing CPU...
CPU Type: Gibson (TM) x99 Supercomputer
Connect To: 1995_Backdoor
Run: SUPERUSER_PASSWORD_CRACK

ENTER

Password: WIPEOUT2021


sechscowboy.ASCII

Click ENTER to download.

ENTER



ERROR: DOWNLOAD INTERRUPTED.
loading… running CPU piggyback…

ARPING 192.168.42.1
60 bytes from 00:60:97:34:91:55
3 packets received. 3 packets transmitted.

Enslave CPU + RUN: fleshmeet_update_2.0

…

Yo yo, my Phreaks! This is hacker elite ORANGE KRUSH, comin’ atcha Ctrl Plus L+A+R+G+E and full Cmd + Bee B+O+L+D! Much apologies for cracking into your terminals again for this fleshmeet update from myself and TERMINAL VELOCITY. Please do hard-wire this info into your cerebellum Read-Only-Memory for us…

Fresh in the Flesh!

Listen up, no one wants to see the clothes your mom bought you for school. This is a party for the most elite hackers on the Net! So plan to sport your freshest individual ‘95 urban streetwear styles that compliment your strong Netizen personalities. No Wackintosh!

Talk to the Hand!

CRUCIAL: We’re living in a panic era of real world pandemic, and a number of our fellow Netizens at this Fleshmeet might not have spent as much time offline as you have - so keep it cool & let’s not make it weird for each other. Stay aware of giving your fellow hackers whatever personal space they might need right now. Don’t forget to bring a mask, bonus points for stylishness. ABSOLUTELY NO HUGS OR ELBOW BUMPS UNLESS MUTUALLY CONSENSUAL.

Hackers of the World Unite!

The KRUSH / VELOCITY WIPEOUT CYBERDELIA is a place of elite hacker unification, a joining together for web-centric and flavorful Netizens and Phreaks for a night of cyber-age revelry, activate your in-flesh love for your fellow wizards of the web and turn on your Higher Brain Functions in this mutual meeting of the minds. We're all in this virtual dungeon together, and we all know you don't split the party in the dungeon!

Boombastical Boooz!

That hottest software samurai, the smooth circuit surfer of the netiverse, TERMINAL VELOCITY, will be serving up a duo of her best cyberpunk wipE’out” themed Think Drink / Smart Drink cocktails (and one non-alcoholic bevvy) for your reaction-time-improving pleasure. So be sure to pack a spare liver in your fanny pack!

Deets!

You already know the place to be, the underground’s club of clubs, but here’s your refresher:

Isotope 20th Anniversary
Cyberdelia Arcade Fleshmeet
Saturday, June 19th. 7pm.
Isotope. San Francisco

Invite only. No tagalongs. And no one in the door without a nom de Phreak.

See you then, fellow phoneline jockies of the web!

We now return you to your regularly scheduled netsurf. After a quick reboot to clear your cache, that is…

Boo-ya!

Orange Krush & Terminal Velocity
KRUSH / VELOCITY

—-

SIGNAL LOST.
Rebooting…

Hello beloved members of the Isotope family,

I hope you are all doing well and staying safe out there. As many of you know I (James) caught Covid flying home from Wisconsin a couple weeks back. We weren’t thrilled about flying during a huge Covid surge but we just couldn’t skip the trip, as we went home for my dad’s 90th birthday. Of course we were extra careful leading up to it (which is why we’ve been total hermits again). The last thing we wanted was to bring a virus with us and get our folks sick.

I’m happy to say it was an amazing birthday party, with everyone testing the morning of the event, I’m so glad we went. As usual, we never took off our N95s, because we definitely didn’t want to get a bunch of older folks sick. Three weeks later it’s safe to say that my parents friends all took that “you must test the morning of the party” seriously & the party went off without even a whisper of a Covid breakout.

Getting to see my old man still *getting down* on the country western dance floor at the VFW for hours and hours *at 90 years old* was truly one of life’s greatest moments. What an inspiration.

The flight home was kind of a disaster. The Chicago airport (always kind of yuck) was a new kind of fresh hell. So yeah, I caught it. But thankfully on the way back to SF instead. I isolated as soon as I started feeling off, long before testing positive. Unfortunately I eventually passed it to Kirsten despite our strict regimen at the house (probably due to a now-obviously-poor-air-flow choice I made).

It’s been a rough couple weeks. Rough on the shop as we were closed a number of days there. And rough on us. I pretty much slept an entire week and barely got out of bed the second week. Sucked. What a huge waste of time.

My apologies for all the inconveniences we caused you all!

Thanks to Kate, first-timer Chuckie Worley, and returning Isotope Alumni Josh Richardson and Michael Ng for helping us limp through a tough couple weeks & keeping the store open as much as humanly possible.

Thankfully Kirsten and I are both on the other side of it all now. We’re testing negative again. And feeling spry and inspired (how could you *not* after witnessing my dad on that dancefloor?!). And we’re back at work once again. Kirsten and I even managed to make the most of the last two days and finished writing and recording the new Space Monsters album (to be released at 7am July 5th, on X-Day when the Pleasure Saucers are scheduled to arrive). So… I am very very thankful.

If I happen to seem extra wiped out when you see me, don’t worry, it probably isn’t Long Covid (I hope not anyway). I’m just doing extra push-ups and stuff to try to make up for all the days I missed. Yikes! But, you know me, I’ll get ‘em done.

Thanks again to all of you for all your understanding these past weeks during our Time Of Chaos and for doing your part to help keep the Isotope limping through it. We really appreciate it

PS Please update your Pull Lists. Thanks!

-James & Kirsten


Hello and happy Syttende Mai (or Grunnlovsdagen if you prefer), Isotope Family!

I hope all is going well for all of you. We’re still doing good & doing our best to stay zen during these many months of supply chain headaches and rising Covid cases. (sigh)! Challenging times for sure. But today is not a day to reflect on life’s challenges, today’s Norwegian holiday is a celebration of life, loves, happy times and also a day to eat Kjøttkake meatballs and Krumakake cookies in celebration of a bright future.

And that is what we shall do.

So I raise a toast to all of you and say an appreciative “Takk skal du ha!” to all of you who have helped make these last 12 months so positive and so successful for us. We really appreciate it!

There are lots of new series coming out (what a deluge!) and, as you know, San Francisco recently lost a long time store, so making sure everyone gets copies of the books they want is more abstruse than ever. Help us by demystifying those titles by letting us know what we should be setting aside for you. Thanks for that as well!

With that... Kirsten and I will leave you to celebrate (or not) the day as you see fit. We’ll be having some Guilde Taffel Norsk Aquavit, listening to some disco by Lindstrøm & continue setting up the shop for a Wednesday to honor the holiday in our own utradisjonell style.

Gratulerer med dagen!
XOXO

James & Kirsten

Hello & happy beautiful days of Spring, Isotope Family!

I hope you are all doing really well. Things are good here at the shop! And I'm thrilled to say that things are starting to move a bit better on the distribution / printing / reprinting side of the industry. It'll probably take quite a while before any of that is actually close to getting back to normal. But still... better is good!

Speaking of comics and distribution, Diamond Comic Distributors is celebrating their 40th anniversary this year and sent out this nice-but-totally-cheesy "WE THANK YOU" Coin to their clients last week. The only not-legal-tender coin I ever really cared about is a totally fake two-headed silver dollar from a magic shop that I scarred up and lives in the pocket of the Two-Face costume Kirsten made for me. But still, it is nice of Diamond to say "thanks" and 40 years is definitely nothing to sneeze at! And, wow, we've been one of their clients for more than half of those 40 years. Thanks to all of you for that!

Let us know what we should be adding on to your Pull Lists, please! The print runs are still super tiny. And San Francisco recently had another long-time comic store close (Comic Outpost) so they left behind an entire store worth of displaced customers who are running around in a panic, desperately looking to get their weekly books. There are definitely more customers than books to go around in the city again. So let's make sure those folks aren't buying *your* copies off our shelves! Get your Pull Lists updated ASAP!

Thanks again! We'll see you soon...

James & Kirsten

Hello Isotope family,

Happy birthday week to our beloved Kate Mattingly!

I first asked Kate to be part of our staff waaaay back in the Spring of 2016. She, and her awesome group of friends, had become part of the extended Isotope community the year before and I instantly loved (love!) them all. Bright, optimistic, clever, excited new comic fans.

Right from the start I loved Kate’s smart take on all things superhero bombast and indie genre fiction storytelling. So much! And her powerful, passionate feelings about the industry and what we can do to continue evolving it. I loved her sly knowing smile and her kind but still razor-sharp sense of humor. And I loved that she had an truly powerful, Kirby God level, of sheer unabashed excitement about the comics she loved. I told Kirsten really early on that we had to get Kate on our staff.

And she’s still here with us all these years later. And she’s an even smarter and more awe-inspiring person now than she was back then. Her passion and enthusiasm for comics is just as potent and visceral as it was when we first met. Kirsten and I are fucking honored to have you with us, Kate Mattingly.

Feel free to stop in on Sunday and wish her happy birthday this week!

James and Kirsten
 
Hello beloved members of the Isotope Family,

Yesterday a customer told me that SPIDER-MAN: NO WAY HOME was in just 3 weekends and THE MATRIX RESURRECTIONS is in just 4 weekends. “Whaa- aren’t those supposed to be out in December?!” I replied in shock. “Yes. December starts next week,” he replied with a laugh. I’m still trying to figure out where September went this year!

Anyway… happy holiday season from your friends at the Isotope! We actually managed to get some restocks in after a bunch of weeks of nothing coming via the gummed up supply chain. So let’s hope that means things are moving again from the distributors (FINGERS CROSSED)! As usual I’ve stocked up the shop with great Big Hits and even greater Deep Cuts to assist with helping you get mind-blowing gifts for friends and family this year. If there’s specific books you’d like to get as gifts for people let us know ASAP so we can get those orders in. And I bought some great new wrapping paper this year to do gift wrapping with.

Stay safe, stay careful, stay cheerful… oh and let us know about any Pull List Updates you might have!

Thanks again for everything this year. We love you.

-James & Kirsten

Hello beloved members of the Isotope community!

Last weekend I rescued a collarless, ownerless dog that was running up and down the block out front of the shop. On Fell street! Such a dangerous busy street for a little guy like that and sometimes people drive totally crazy on the block. That’s definitely no place for a dog to be off-leash, much less off-leash and ownerless! But, fortunately, with the help of a nice couple, we managed to find the dog’s owner (WHEW)! So stressful. I seriously thought for a while there that this email was going to have to be me asking you all if any of you wanted to adopt him this week.

But instead I get to ask you to do something that’s very simple that requires no additional responsibility or poop scooping whatsoever... please vote for the 2021 Best of the Bay awards! It actually generates business so, especially at times like this, it really helps, and Independent mom & pop businesses like us really appreciate it. So much more than I can even really express.

https://48hills.org/2021/09/vote-now-best-of-the-bay-2021-readers-poll/

And of course, please do let Kirsten & I know about any Pull List updates you have. You know what to do!

And also please do be safe with yourselves and with each other out there. The Delta Covid is some serious stuff and unfortunately we definitely know some full-vax breakthrough cases. My double-vaccinated Aunt Marianne just got out of the hospital with Covid and she wanted me to remind you all to be careful & be responsible. Marianne is pretty sure the only reason she got to even go home was that she’d been fully vaccinated before catching it. So Kirsten, Aunt Marianne and I all hope you are all staying safe and remembering to keep others around you safe too.

The reason the X-Men are a better team than the Defenders (despite having both Doctor Strange and Silver Surfer on the roster) is because the X-Men * work together* and have each other’s back when the chips are down. We’re all in this together! I have faith we will get to the other side and to more fun times together again too. And I say let’s all be X-Men together!

I call Magik, Illyana Rasputin (a blonde wig, a shave, I think I could totally rock those outfits)! And Kirsten calls Nightcrawler (the flying trapeze, the swashbuckling attitude in the face of danger - I can see it). Let us know which X-person you want to claim...

Now go vote for that Best of the Bay Reader’s Poll, please! And update those lists! Thanks!

https://48hills.org/2021/09/vote-now-best-of-the-bay-2021-readers-poll/

XOXOX

James (& Kirsten too)



logo
Hi Sean
﻿Hello beloved members of the Isotope Family!

I hope you are doing well and staying safe during these crazy months! The Isotope is hanging in there, selling lots of awesome graphic novels, and being there for people who need a powerful dose of escapism right now.

This last week was something of a kick in the nether regions for Kirsten and I as our two favorite SF Bay Area small businesses announced they'd be closing forever. Super sad. So I'm raising a glass and toasting our friends at Trapeze Arts Oakland and Pläj Scandinavian Restaurant! Those friendly places, and the unique and amazing communities that formed around the simple and shared love of weird stuff like Flying Trapeze and aquavit, will be missed more than I could ever express. Thanks to their respective staffs (and teachers!) for so many wonderful years.

(If you'd like to offer support to the Trapeze Arts instructors with reincarnating the school, here's a link to a survey where you can indicate how you might be able to help: https://bit.ly/BayAerialistCoalition)

As Kirsten and I continue to navigate through the survivor’s guilt and continue to drive our little comic book store through these unprecedented times, we’re concentrating on focusing on the good stuff & being thankful for our lucky fortunes. That’s always the strongest antidote to bad news! It’s been an incredible time for us & we’re thrilled to have gotten to take those extra hard routes so we could keep our most vulnerable folks safe. And this week has made it even more clear than ever how many “thank you, we love yous!” we owe each and every one of you who helped us get through those scary months.

Thank you! We love you! ❤️

As you know, Marvel and DC both have new distributors and there’s a lot of unprecedented stuff that makes getting everything we order a little bit of a mess. So we ask that you bear with us and our somewhat messy funnybook distributors. From our end we can see it’s all slowly improving.

Please let us know what you’re reading and what you want to stop reading and what you want to start reading! Print runs have never been so tight and distribution has never been more of a sloppy mess in all our 20 years. (laugh) Of course, right?!

So let us know! Send those updates here to this email address and we’ll get your lists updated!

Love you! Crazy times even for us vaccinated folks (thank you Dolly Parton for my Moderna)! Please be safe out there!

- James & Kirsten


logo
Hi Sean
﻿Hello Isotope Family,

Most of you already know by now that the Isotope is finally back to being open for indoor browsing. It’s great getting to see people browsing the shelves again!

With the Delta variant causing a huge spike in cases, and all the kids who can’t get vaccinated coming in, we’re still going to operating with the utmost caution and our in-store mask policy will be continuing for the time being. Kirsten and I thank you for your continued good sense and understanding as we further negotiate this worldwide crisis.

We have some big positive changes we’ve been working on behind the scenes to make life (and comics) happier for all. First among them is expanding our hours! We’re now open from 11am-6pm Tuesday through Saturday. Yay!

And as soon as I can get a couple things done we’ll be having Kate returning and will once again be open on Sundays. I’m not sure which week but it’s soon. Really excited to have her back behind the Isotope counter again.

Now that they have a window in their schedule over at Dark Garden, Kirsten & I will be getting measured at the end of the week, and Autumn and her crew will be getting to that replacement Doctor Strange Cloak of Levitation and Clea Ruler of the Dark Dimension outfit. Amazing! Thanks again to all of you who joined in with Andrew Nilsen (Kirsten’s trapeze catcher & one of the Isotope’s best friends on Earth) to make that possible. The outpouring of love from everyone was truly overwhelming.

Please make sure you’re letting us know all the books you want to be reading! You can send us an email & we can make those updates on our end. Not long now until we have a better solution for this but for now we’ll make do. But get those updates in for us, por favor.

Okay, be safe out there! We’ll do the same! Love from Kirsten and I!

James & Kirsten

www.isotopecomics.com


logo
Hi Sean
﻿Hello beloved members of the Isotope family,

I hope you are all doing fantastic on this late-June Monday. The first of this month was a huge anniversary for us here at the Isotope... TWENTY YEARS! Amazing. Thanks for that!

This is a truly monumental moment for Kirsten, Kate, & I. And also all of our current satellite staff who also help keep this little shop running like Michael Ng, Ken Sanderson, Andrew Gapen, and Beatrix. And also all of our staff members, official and otherwise, past and present. Kirsten & I thank you from the bottom of our hearts. We truly couldn’t have done it without all of you.

We’re kicking off our anniversary year in a big way, by doing what we’ve all been waiting so very long for, this coming week (Thursday or Friday, I believe) we are re-opening the Isotope at last! Kirsten & I have been hard at work these last weeks preparing the shop, re-envisioning some aspects, and just getting it all going again.

Of course it’s going to take a little bit until the shop truly feels like the shop again, as most of you probably suspect 2020 was a tough year on our little retail store. And that choice we made to just work the table until all of our most at-risk customers were all fully vaccinated, maaaaan, we really did it the hardest way possible didn’t we?! But no regrets!

We made it through! And we’re continuing to make it through! That’s the best anniversary present of all!

The pull lists have been in serious flux recently, as people move out of town, others move in & also the tourists starting to return to SF, so please let us know what books you’d like to be reading! You don’t have to update your lists via ComicHub (we think the whole site & service is something of a trainwreck too, unfortunately) feel free to just write us with your lists and we can update them on our end. We definitely want to make sure we’re getting the books you all want for you!

In other news, we’ll continue to maintain our mask mandate for the time being for folks coming in the front door to protect the kiddos who come to our shop who can’t get vaccinated. Kirsten & I know you folks understand where we’re coming from on this. So we’ll be doing that at least for a little while moving forward... in the wonderful world of *inside* again!

Kirsten & I have some big plans for the shop this year, a bunch of rebuilding and refurbishing, and definitely some stuff that I’m pretty sure all of you will be thrilled about.

Thanks again for everything. See you soon!

James & Kirsten

Hello beloved Isotope family,

I hope you are all well and staying safe. Things are good here at the Isotope, we’re still limping through the pandemic and still maintaining our commitment to keeping our community safe during this worldwide health crisis (slightly excessive? You bet!). Admittedly it is fairly brutal in the short term but I am confident we going to look back on these years with pride at the good choices we made and with a stronger empathy than ever to the plights of others. Thanks to each and every one of you for your understanding, support, and encouragement as we continue to navigate this historic moment together.

Let’s talk about comic books, shall we?!

There’s exciting stuff going on behind the scenes in the industry. Marvel has a new distributor in the Fall (the first time since 1996) and one of the first things this new distributor Penguin Random House has sent out to us is a * huge* list of Marvel Omnibus collections that are finally being reprinted this year! Nice! It’s exciting to see someone actually investing in the comics world, a shockingly rare thing in this industry. Here’s a list of those... these will all be getting reprinted throughout the rest of 2021. It’s going to be a great year!

Let us know if you want us to set any of these aside for you when they come out!

X-MEN: INFERNO OMNIBUS HC
Final Orders Due: 5/31/21
$125 - The 1989 epic crossover. All things good here - Madelyne Pryor, Illyana Rasputin, Limbo, The Goblin Queen, and NYC over-run by demons. Love it! Put on your favorite 80s Bay Area thrash band and get rocking with this super demonic mutant story! Ash was so excited to see this!

UNCANNY X-MEN OMNIBUS VOL. 1 HC
Final Orders Due: 7/12/21
$100 - The issues that made X-Men the greatest thing in superheroes! I’m so excited for those of you who are going to get to read these for the first time. Amazing comics! I definitely love seeing the commitment to this brand from Marvel / Disney again. It’s such a fun time to be an X-Men reader!

UNCANNY X-MEN OMNIBUS VOL. 2 HC
Final Orders Due: 7/5/21
$100 - And here Chris Claremont, Dave Cockrum and John Byrne up the ante and set an even higher new standard for superhero excellence which defined comics for decades. This has every story all the X movies desperately attempt to recreate (and for good reason!) “Dark Phoenix Saga” “Days of Future Past.” Too bad for Hollywood their attempts have been so poor. These comics are awesome.

UNCANNY X-MEN OMNIBUS VOL. 3 HC
Final Orders Due: 6/28/21
$125 - Chris Claremont & Paul Smith! My personal favorite era of all for the X-Men! Lots of cosmic action action here with the Brood, the Shi’ar and the StarJammers. As well as the Carol Danvers Binary transformation. And also Rogue joins the X-Men! Unforgettable. This book also includes the original Chris Claremont & Frank Miller WOLVERINE mini-series and also still the best X-Men comic ever made, GOD LOVES, MAN KILLS.

UNCANNY X-MEN OMNIBUS VOL. 4 HC
Final Orders Due: 6/7/21
$125 - I hope you’re ready for Mohawk-era Storm! I am! The Chris Claremont & John Romita Jr run starts here, another personal favorite, and also a little beautiful art in “Lifedeath” by Barry Windsor-Smith thrown in for good measure. Also the intro of Rachel Summers... you might not care much about this D-level character but I definitely do!

NEW MUTANTS OMNIBUS VOL. 1 HC
Final Orders Due: 6/14/21
$125 - Now this, *this* is the book that changed my comic reading forever. I recently sat down and re-read these Claremont & Bill Sienkiewicz issues just two years ago and they were as wonderful as I remembered. I love this book and these characters so much.

INCREDIBLE HULK BY PETER DAVID OMNIBUS VOL. 1 HC
Final Orders Due: 6/14/21
$125 - This was a transformative moment for the character and definitely the most celebrated Hulk run of all time. Smart Hulk, Dumb Hulk, Grey Hulk, Green Hulk, Joe Fixit Hulk. And fan favorites Todd McFarlane and Marlo. And lots of mafia goons. Gamma irradiated coolness.

INFINITY GAUNTLET OMNIBUS HC
Final Orders Due: 6/21/21
$125 - Jim Starlin’s cosmic space epic in a gigantic hardcover that collects so much more than just the mini-series. Starlin is brilliant / amazing / insane in all the best ways. This one deserves pride of display on your bookshelf.

FANTASTIC FOUR OMNIBUS VOL. 1 HC
Final Orders Due: 6/21/21
$125 - The greatest Lee / Kirby series ever! Nuff said!

CAPTAIN AMERICA BY ED BRUBAKER OMNIBUS VOL. 1 HC
Final Orders Due: 6/28/21
$100 - How has this been out of print for * so long?!* A true modern day Marvel classic, written by Isotope amigo Ed Brubaker. Who remembers the in-store event we did with Ed when he first told us, long before anyone else in comics had gotten wind of it, “I’m bringing Bucky back!” And boy did he! What a great book!

AMAZING SPIDER-MAN OMNIBUS VOL. 2
Final Orders Due: 7/5/21
$125 - Ditko may have left this book forever (sob!) but no worries, because everything and everyone in Spidey’s world is about to get really, really, really gorgeous thanks to the amazing art of Johnny Romita. Great Green Goblin and Kingpin stories to be found here (that darn Golden Tablet!) and the intro of the grooviest, swingin’est 1960s teen dream fashionista... Mary Jane Watson!

ASTONISHING X-MEN BY WHEDON & CASSADAY OMNIBUS
Final Orders Due: 7/12/21
$100 - Joss might be persona non grata at my house these days but these are still pretty great comics. Also so so beautiful!

SILVER SURFER OMNIBUS VOL. 1
Final Orders Due: 7/19/21
$100 - I have no idea how I never managed to get myself one of these when they first came out. Thankfully I was too darn much of a cheapskate to pony up the many-hundreds-of-dollars that eBay prices have been demanding the past years... because a new printing is coming! Yay! This has the single best superhero vs superhero story I have ever read, Thor vs The Silver Surfer!

Isn’t it fun to see all these great books coming back and seeing Marvel so re-energized? And their new distributor going all chips in on getting books onto store shelves again? This bodes so well for the future of Marvel collections. Penguin Random House is clearly here to make some money and I am here for it!

The bookshelves are going to be so happy!

If you want any of these Omnibus books please let us know before those Final Order Dates. Send us an email directly and I’ll let you know what the cover options are for each one. Personally I always collect the vintage style covers on these Omnibuses but the modern style covers sure are sexy too.

Please update your lists and let Kirsten and I know what we should be ordering for you. With ComicHub being a bit of a train wreck (oh, comics industry!) a simple email back to us here is probably the easiest method these days. Love you all!

xoxox
James & Kirsten


logo
Hi Sean
﻿Hello Isotope Family!

I hope you are all doing well. With your help Kirsten and I are continuing to keep the Isotope limping along through this hardest time in a lifetime for small businesses like ours. And, as you all know, we’re really doing it in the hardest way possible by still only doing doorside service after all these months.

But... we’ve got a responsibility to our immuno-compromised customers to keep them safe. And we can only do that by ensuring we’re going a little bit overboard on the safety precautions at work and taking as few risks during our out of work hours during this pandemic as humanly possible. Kirsten & I have always been the “Yes! And...” or “Yes! But...” kind of folks. So having to say “No” so much definitely has been a challenge. But it’s for the best cause of all. Keeping our community healthy and safe! Apologies all around to all of you, and our friends and families, who have inadvertently had to sacrifice more than they’d want because of our steadfast commitment to that cause.

Thankfully things are starting to look better, a little light peeking in on the end of that long, dark tunnel. As are many of you, Kirsten is now fully vaccinated (WHEW) and I have an appointment for my first dose next week Monday, so we’re getting there!

But we won’t be going back to indoor browsing until we can be sure the most vulnerable members of the Isotope community are also safe. And our list of customers who we know are at risk is looking better every day as the vaccines get distributed to more and more people. It’s really uplifting to get to see the progress every week! If you are one of those people who have told us you were particularly at risk during this pandemic and you’ve gotten into that exclusive Full Vax club lately, please let us know! Yay!

In other Isotope news - You may have been watching INVINCIBLE recently and wondering why ISOTOPE doesn’t look like me like he does in the comic! My friend Robert Kirkman did indeed ask if they could use my likeness for the cartoon series. And I would have gladly let them (for free!) but sadly the ‘Zon just didn’t give us enough time to have an IP lawyer properly word an agreement that would protect us. As that’s not a character I made up, but actually *me* and named after our small business, it was just too much of a risk to sign over those rights without proper legal help. The last thing I want is to accidentally get our universes blown sky high by armies of corporate Death Star stormtrooper lawyers! So, sadly, I had to say “no.” Regardless, I’ve got nothing but love for Robert and the Skybound folks. Love them! And it’s a great animated show (and a better comic!) so I encourage you to check it out. Truly an honor to be asked. Thanks Robert!

Last but certainly not least --

We had a break in at the store in the end of February that you may have heard about. It was a really bad one. We lost a lot and had some damage to the shop. Rough timing in a really rough year. Especially as I was still finding glass shards from a couple months earlier when an (extremely high) guy smashed our windows open with a motorcycle muffler. Thankfully I didn’t get hurt & managed to chase that guy off. This was a different person, and sadly crimes like these are something that my whole neighborhood has been suffering through lately. Even so having to come to work to see the windows smashed in was tough.

Worse than all the things stolen and wrecked was seeing the Doctor Strange costume gone. That costume, made by Kirsten, has hung in the store every day since 2003. A constant companion of mine. One of the greatest pieces of original art Kirsten has ever made. And it brought a lot of happiness to thousands of customers over the years. So having that stolen was like getting a knife right in our hearts.

But a magical thing happened.

In the comics Doctor Strange loses his Cloak of Levitation *all the time* and it always always always comes back to him in unexpected ways and oftentimes in different forms.

Andrew Nilsen, who you may know as the guy who catches Kirsten in her Flying Trapeze class (9 years now! Wow!), and a huge number of folks (probably you!) organized a surprise fundraiser to cover the costs to have our beloved neighbors at Dark Garden Unique Corsetry recreate the Doctor Strange costume for us. What an amazing thing!

Kirsten and I are so touched all the effort and work put into this and by this outpouring of love from our community.

The project is fully funded so I’ll be keeping people updated on the progress on Twitter, Instagram & Facebook, I’m excited to see what Autumn and her amazing Dark Garden team make. And, to be honest, it’s just really hard to hold back the tears just writing about it.

THANK YOU to Andrew and all of you who helped make comic book magic a reality.

❤️

- James & Kirsten

PS Please take the time to update your Pull Lists! It helps us out a ton. Thank you!!

Hello Isotope Family,

I hope you are all doing well. It’s been great talking to so many people who have gotten doses of the Covid vaccines. Every shot gets us closer! And while the light at the end of the pandemic tunnel might actually still be further off than we hope IT FEELS GREAT knowing that THERE IS LIGHT AT THE END OF THE TUNNEL! I haven’t been vaccinated yet but I’m sure that will be coming soon. Let’s all keep our uncanny leagues assembled and keep on doing our part to protect the vulnerable like the larger than life super heroes in the pages of our favorite funnybooks! And hopefully we can actually hang out together later this year!

Oh yes, we are also generating our monthly orders. So let us know, let us know, people!

By the way - Have you been reading the DC relaunch books right now? We’re on THREE WEEKS of all-killer, no-filler awesome comic books from them and not a single dud in the entire line so far. That’s pretty incredible!

Hope to get to hug and high-five you guys again soon!

XOXOX

James & Kirsten
 
Hello Isotope Family,

Hey happy February, it is time for us to place our monthly order later this week & that means it is also time for you folks to let us know what books to order for you. Kirsten & I like when we can order lots of obscure and offbeat titles. But this pandemic has certainly made that hard these last twelve months. So we really appreciate those of you who have helped us with our ordering by updating your pull lists and keeping us up to date on your wants and needs. Running a comic shop is hard even in the best of times. But doing so during a worldwide health crisis is something of a Galactus-sized hard. So thanks to you who have done your part to help us with these orders. Especially on the obscure and offbeat books!

Speaking of obscure... today is 2000ad’s anniversary, 44 years of my personal favorite obscure British funnybook. I put a little thing on my Instagram today about how I’m celebrating this great little comic that very few American comic fans have ever heard of much less read.

Happy birthday to my favorite comic, 2000 AD! My first was #374. As soon as I read that HALO JONES I knew I was hooked for life on this hard-to-find British comic. Thanks to Hank from 20th Century Books for making this available for impressionable young American minds like mine, and to my friends Jonah and Jay for buying runs of my “normal” comics so I could find out what happened in subsequent issues! Giving thanks for some nice California weather today & especially for that childhood discovery of this comic that altered the course of my life by having a quiet re-read of the first issues I ever bought...

James (& Kirsten too)

Hello beloved Isotope family,

Oh, it’s cold in the shop today! I’m huddled up next to the overworked space heater, that small puff of warmth quickly disappearing up towards the 16 foot ceilings, and I’m definitely feeling that deep January chill drafting off the cement walls.

But my heart is filled with a smoldering fire of thankfulness... you have, miraculously, kept the Isotope alive through these cold dark months. Buying gift certificates, picking up an extra graphic novel or two, getting gifts for your family members, and asking us to deliver comics to friends you don’t get to see outside of an internet browser right now. It’s helped the Isotope so much and I can’t tell you how much we appreciate it.

Speaking of “warm” and “hearts”...

As hokey as it truly is, Valentines Day is always one of my favorite times of the year at the Isotope. The shop was built on our love of comics and our love of people. That’s why it’s here. And it’s why it’s still here after all these years. Because people have reciprocated in kind. Love might not be for everyone but it always is here, it’s just in the air at the Isotope. I’ve honestly lost count of how many of you have met your special someones at our shop. And so many more friendships that go so far beyond the cement walls of this building and last a lifetime. Too many to count! All through the love of this little place we built together. And all through the love of comics.

In normal, non-pandemic, years I get to celebrate this with all of you. We usually don’t even talk about any holiday at all. We just talk about comics & characters & creators we love. And usually Kirsten & I throw a fun February party with a creator we adore too (we’re sneaky like that)!

Around the holiday each year some folks enthusiastically buy gifts for sweethearts or dates or friends or just decide to spread their love of comics to random people of the world. It’s awesome. I love how you all take the Hallmark Holiday and make it into something cool & unique. Something comics. So it’s always a really magical and fun time here for me.

We won’t be getting to throw any party to celebrate in February this year. And looking at the getting-better-but-still-pretty-horrific Covid numbers we won’t be getting to do a heck of a lot of anything in February but do our best to continue limping through these tough times.

Orders and print runs are tighter than ever, so that our publishers and industry’s retailers can continue to hang on, and sell-out single issues are more common than ever. So please let us know well in advance if there’s comics you want us to order for you.

And hey, if you still want to celebrate a little love together - please do let us know right away if you’d like us to do Valentines Day no-contact / limited-contact deliveries for you. That would be fun. Or if you want us to stock up on certain books for gifts for your sweethearts & friends & families. That’ll help us out a bunch too. Just thinking about it is going to bring a little extra nice warm glow to my heart during these cold winter weeks to come...

Be well & stay safe, my friends.

James & Kirsten

Happy holidays Isotope Family!

We hope you & your loved ones are all doing well. It’s a tough year & a weird December for everyone. Unlike years past we haven’t really told anyone this Winter that we’re doing free gift wrapping or helping pick out gifts, or even really saying “hey, we’re still in business!”... which, of course, you want to do. But with the Covid numbers spiking, encouraging people to come out and shop just seems like the absolute worst thing to do right now. So we’ve been very quiet this year. Thankfully, enough of you have been there for us so we can continue to limp through and continue our plans to quietly do our part to keep all our people safe. I know we’ve certainly leaned more towards being extra cautious this year than some other small businesses have. We cannot thank you all enough for being so understanding and supportive and helping us to continue to do what we think is safest for all our customers. Thanks for that! We love you!

Kirsten & I have been doing a lot of no-contact and limited-contact home deliveries lately and would be happy to do one for you as well. Just send us an email and let us know.

As we head into this new year I have a lot of optimism for the future. 2021 will certainly be a weird year but my heart feels that it will be a good one. It’s the Isotope’s 20th birthday in June and that’s pretty incredible. As I’m sure we’ll still be dealing with health crisis concerns well into this next year we’re not likely to be hosting a party for it, but Kirsten & I hope to get to celebrate those years with you all maybe later into the year or in 2022.

As far as funnybooks are concerned, it’s a pretty great time to be a comic reader, lots of good books to help inspire / distract / enjoy right now. That’s so nice. And the publishers keep cranking out new titles that get me excited to check out new books too. DC has some major overhauls going on that look pretty cool and I’m interested to see what they’ve got up their sleeves. Vault Comics and Marvel have been really knocking it out of the park & I expect more fun stuff from them in 2021. And... guys... I even saw Brian Vaughan mention on his Instagram recently that he is hard at work writing SAGA scripts again. Hallelujah!

Please take some time & update your pull-lists. We want to continue getting you everything you want and also have to keep walking that razor’s edge to keep the store limping through. So we don’t have a lot of wiggle room for ordering books on spec. The better we know from you what you want to read the better job we can do for you, and really everyone, and continue to keep the shop afloat.

Thanks again for all your love & support. I can’t wait to get to give out hugs & high fives once again. Here’s wishing a safe and happy holidays from Kirsten, Kate, Victor, Michael, Josh, Katie, Andrew, Ash & I to you and your loved ones this year. ❤️

Thank you.

- James & Kirsten

logo
Hi Sean
﻿Happy Thanksgiving, Isotope Family!

We have SO MUCH to be thankful for this year. Between being able to continue limping our small business through the pandemic and continuing to keep all our customers safe... Kirsten & I could not be more thankful. Thankful for awesome and thoughtful customers like yourselves and also some seriously good fortune too.

Just this last Friday there was a *fire* in the upstairs neighbor’s office above the Isotope. It was incredibly scary. Fire, or water from above, is a total nightmare for a store that sells paper. And as the firefighters ran up the staircase with their hoses I quite literally thought that was the end for us. But... it wasn’t. We got lucky and we survived it with no damage. (((long slow exhale)))

If this year has taught us anything it is to not take things for granted. Even the little, seemingly unimportant, things in life. Like being able to get a roll of toilet paper, going to see a movie, high-fiving an acquaintance, or meeting a friend at a bar. Or larger things like hugging our loved ones. It’s all important. And we’re grateful for the things in life that are good and for any good news this year brings.

What better holiday in our entire lifetimes for each of us to really take time to reflect on life, and to all count our various blessings, than Thanksgiving in 2020?! Kirsten and I just have so much to be thankful for. And we’ve been counting our blessings. For the big things and the small things and the in-between things.

We hope you are well & doing good. Please let us know if we can help make your Fall and Winter a good one. We want each and everyone of you to know that we’re here for you, like you’ve all been there for us. Comics have always helped us through hard times and to surmount life’s challenges. And we know a lot of you have similar relationships with these so-called “funnybooks” we all love. So do let us know if we can help get them to you or if you’d like us to do a delivery to your home. We’ve been doing no-contact and limited-contact deliveries all over the Bay Area and are happy to for you as well.

Please do take some time to update your pull-lists so we can continue to keep on effectively keeping you connected to one of life’s little pleasures.

Thank you.

- James & Kirsten
  
CRIMSON TEARS



"The Asteroid of Misfit Droids" 



A five-page sci-fi bounty hunter story with lots of robot fighting and a classic O'Henry style twist ending. 



Vaara Resnik (Main Character) - "Crimson Tears" Vaara Resnik is a human (or humanoid) female space bounty hunter in the STRONTIUM DOG or down-and-out HALO JONES on Pwuc vein. She is the far-far-future descendant of Judith Resnik, the second American woman in space, but she is not aware of her ancestry. While Vaara is quite intelligent, she can also kick your ass in a brawl, and her entire physicality and demeanor is more akin to a blunt object than a scalpel. Bounty hunting is blue collar work so she's got dirt under her chipped fingernails and everything she wears is cheap and probably dirty. Almost everything in this universe is disposable one-time-use tools so she uses a variety of throw-away weapons.



Her three most important design details are:



Tears - Vaara always has bloody tears running down her face. A consequence of her method of arrival and also the character's signature iconic look. Like everything else about this 2000AD-inspired character, these elements are bold and dramatic. So don't think of them like cute little dainty tears of blood, or gothy smeared mascara, but instead these are two thick rivers of red that cover her cheeks and run down her neck. 



Gear - Vaara also has a variety of disposable high tech weaponry strapped to her belt (see below). Including a blaster, and a number of sci-fi grenades (each one looks different). The grenades all have pop-top pull-tabs to use them, reminiscent of a 1970s beer can, and make a pleasing “POK!” sound to maximize fun and pleasure when activating them. The throwaway aspect of these items is important to the flavor of this story. 



Additional Gear - Also on Vaara’s belt is a Handheld Device with a screen attached by a cable to an intimidating metallic Spider-Like Contraption. This Spider-Like Contraption is used to clamp onto people’s heads and wipe their brains with a flick of a switch. 



Belt - The Siegas-Arnold Tactical Support Waistband. The belt that Vaara wears works just like a hotel mini-bar. All of the useful bounty hunting weaponry you might need is right there for the taking, anytime you want. Handy, right? But also each of these limited-use weapons is also incredibly overpriced and the belt charges your account whenever an item is removed. And if that wasn't annoying enough, it also talks.



Droids - These are robots used for a variety of household and industrial uses. They can look like whatever you want. One of them should be a Medical Bot with a number of contraptions and a huge evil looking Bone Saw arm attachment (or something similar), but otherwise go crazy & have fun with them. As these are just reprogrammed household robots that Vaara has to fight - they're not very effective against a well-equipped bounty hunter. She makes pretty fast work of them. 



Magnus Mort (Antagonist) - Magnus Mort is one of the most hardened criminals in the entire universe. But when we finally see him we learn that he is also a kind of nerdy looking dude.



Asteroid - Köksavfall-374. With just enough atmosphere to sustain human life this was once a place where plants and alien creatures flourished. Now it is a dumping ground for trash. Including a bunch of droids. (Köksavfall is Swedish for garbage.)



----



PAGE ONE



Full page, full bleed, with inset panels. Outer space at the top of the page on down to a rocky asteroid at the bottom. 



A dropship, like a red hot ember, careens down from outer space and crashes into a dramatic explosion at the bottom of the page. 



Dropship - Självmordsresa-666. (If you’d like to get into the details of it ) This looks like an upside down bullet in a tattered dress, a death-coffin with eerie tree-branch-like "feathered configuration airfoils" behind it in a shuttlecock shape. These airfoils are designed to slow it down when it enters planetoid atmosphere. But mostly they just look creepy and unsettling, like some death metal band logo you can't quite read. (Självmordsresa is Swedish for Suicide Trip)



Wide & narrow insert panels. 



PANEL ONE

Close up shot on our protagonist's eyes. They are panicked, bulging out unnaturally, and filled with throbbing veins. The capillary blood vessels in the eyes are bursting and blood is exploding outwards in a splash of red, floating zero-gravity-like, all around. 



CAPTION 1: I hate this part.



CAPTION 2: The blood vessels in your eyeballs rupture as you hit the atmospheric Kármán line at 63k attoparsecs up at hypersonic speed.



COMPUTER CAPTION 1: +++CONDITION: WARNING+++

COMPUTER CAPTION 2: +++LIFE SUPPORT: CRITICAL+++



PANEL TWO

White knuckles. Things start shaking. 



This panel is a cramped shot, showing a small glimpse of the interior of the dropship and Vaara's body crammed in it. But we can’t see her face yet - we want to save her full face reveal for page two!



There's no steering this dropship so there are no controls, just "oh shit!" grab handles. This panel focuses on Vaara's rough hand(s) gripping on for dear life, (and maybe you can see a foot hooked under a handle on the floor too, whatever looks most uncomfortable). Her knuckles are so white that you can practically see the bones under her skin. 



Pink plasma light dances from an outside window off-camera. 



The interior walls of the dropship are completely covered in cheap white padding and look suspiciously like a classic horror movie psychiatric ward's padded room. Of course it does... you'd have to be totally insane to do planetfall in one of these things. 



CAPTION: You try not to puke as your coffin impacts the planetoid mesosphere with a kinetic energy pressure-wave that shreds molecules, stripping electrons from their atoms. 



COMPUTER CAPTION 1: +++LIFE SUPPORT: TERMINAL+++

COMPUTER CAPTION 2: +++CONDITION: TERMINAL+++



PANEL THREE

The dropship shaking increases. This is another close up shot. Vaara's gritted teeth and her jaw clenched tight, sweat beading up, straining under the pressure of the G-Forces. Red hot light from that outside window off-camera now. Blood droplets from her eyes are floating around, suspended in the air, zero-g like.



CAPTION: Your skull flexes from the pressure. Your vision goes black as your brain enters an ischemic state of blood starvation. 



COMPUTER: +++TERMINAL+++



PANEL FOUR

Everything is shaking like crazy. Second close up shot on our protagonist's eyes, a reference to panel one, but this time her eyes are squeezed tightly shut, bracing for impact. Blood is splashing outwards, floating zero-gravity-like, all around.



COMPUTER: +++TERMINAL+++



CAPTION: And you wish there were still gods somewhere out there in the universe you could pray to. 



COMPUTER: +++TERMINAL+++



BOTTOM OF PAGE

Huge explosion as the dropship impacts with the asteroid! 




PAGE 2



Splash page. The page is dominated by a huge image of Vaara. A classic hero shot! The bottom of the page is a Will Eisner title tribute with the name of the strip spelled out in shattered rock.



Vaara climbing out of a smoking crater. Tears of blood streaming down her face and neck. She looks beat up but also totally badass. 



Be sure to show off some of the equipment she has on her belt. Most importantly the hand-held device with a screen and that metallic spider-like contraption. 



CAPTION: Time to get to work.



BOTTOM OF THE PAGE TITLE and credits treatment: 

THE ASTEROID OF MISFIT DROIDS

James Sime & Christian Ward




PAGE 3



This page has a vintage EC Comics or 70s Bernie Wrightson horror vibe. Vaara gets a view of the full scope of the job ahead of her as robots of all types rise from mass graves / trash heaps all around. This isn't going to be easy. 



PANEL ONE

This is a recreation of the Page 2's hero shot splash page, where Vaara is looking like a badass climbing out of that crater, but with the camera pulled way, way back to reveal the entire landscape of the asteroid. Trash heaps upon trash heaps of indistinguishable metal garbage.  



Vaarna speaks for the first time, speaking out to our antagonist, Magnus Mort, wherever he may be in this dump. But, like a jaded old cop reading Miranda Rights, these words are just routine procedure to her and she doesn't care if he can hear her or not, so she doesn't even bother shouting it.  



CAPTION: Trust a scumbag like Magnus Mort to hide in a place like this. Another asteroid in some backwater system where the Corps landfill the returns and excess inventory as a tax write off. 



VAARA (routinely): Vaara Resnik, registered Loss Prevention and Recovery Agent of the Singularity Conglomerate. Magnus Mort, you went off-grid 15 cycles ago. You know what I'm here to do. 



PANEL TWO

Same or similar to the previous panel. Except suddenly that the horizon-wide landscape of trash heaps are now moving. Menacing robots standing up in shadow silhouettes, like zombies climbing from graves. 



CAPTION: A droid dump. Clever. 



PANEL THREE

This panel is a classic Bernie Wrightston / Kevin O'Neill perspective shot. In the foreground (mostly in silhouette) is a menacing robot hand with serrated edge saws for fingertips. And Vaara in the distance. The perspective makes her look small and the hand look huge and scary, with the blades of those dreadful deadly fingertips surrounding her, almost swallowing her up. 



Vaara is reaching for a grenade on her belt.



CAPTION: Some skips are smarter than you'd expect. Like this one. Hiding out here and reprogramming an entire dumping ground of droids to protect him. 



PANEL FOUR

Vaara narrows her eyes in classic Clint Eastwood style. She's holding a sci-fi grenade in one hand. With her other hand she is ready to activate the weapon with a pop-top pull-tab. The tab is kind of sci-fi looking but also is kind of similar to those 1970s beer can tabs that you'd accidentally step on at the beach and cut your foot open.



CAPTION: Good thing I came prepared. 



BELT: ❤️ Lorentz-Force Electrostatic Grenade. Thank you for your purchase. ❤️ 



PANEL FIVE

Vaara slow-pitch lobs the Electrostatic Grenade underhanded at one of the encroaching robots. It sticks to the robot's chest. Lines of crazy sci-fi magnetic force start to radiate out of it. 



The pop top tab she just pulled off bounces by her foot, tossed casually aside, just more garbage to add to the heap now, as Vaara reaches with her other hand for her belt and another grenade. 



POP TOP FX: POK!



CAPTION: As soon as you pop the top on an Electrostatic you feel the hair on your neck stand up and the rapid change in amplitude makes the air taste metallic.



PANEL SIX

The Electrostatic Grenade detonates, large lines of magnetic force radiating out of it, sending arcs of magnetic electricity between various nearby robots and slamming them violently together in a static electricity triboelectric effect. It is kind of comical.



CAPTION: Corpo overages disposal site. Most of these droids are straight out of the plastic wrap and still have the price tags on them. 




PAGE 4



Robot fighting page! Vaara kills a bunch of these reprogrammed household robots while our sneaky antagonist creeps about. Since all these high tech weapons Vaara is using are disposable, expensive, one-time-use armaments she quickly runs out of grenades and guns and has to get down to bare fists on these droids. Meanwhile our antagonist lurks about in the shadows and then jumps out to attack!



PANEL ONE

Vaara leaps dramatically away as she pulls the second grenade from her belt, pops the top, and tosses it at the awkwardly wriggling mass of static-clinged robots. She definitely doesn't want to be anywhere adjacent when this grenade goes off.



BELT: ❤️ Kugelblitz Singularity Bomb. Thank you for your purchase. ❤️ 



POP TOP FX: POK!



CAPTION: Nasty gravitational pull on these microdot black holes. Have to be sure you’re far enough from the ergosphere to avoid being sucked into the event horizon. But nothing clears a crowd quicker. 



PANEL TWO 

Oversized panel. Total psychedelic destruction! The Singularity Bomb goes off, creating a teeny tiny black hole that sucks in everything around it. Including the mass of robots, trash, rocks, and a mesmeric swirl of the most saturated and full-spectrum colors on the light spectrum. Vaara watches on from the ground in the foreground, just out of range, at the crazy psychotronic whirlpool.



CAPTION: Expensive. But worth it. Looks like only a couple dozen droids left to get through. 



PANEL THREE

Vaara getting to her feet, pulling a gun from her belt, and spinning to face the remaining droids scattered around. This panel has a classic old west flavor like you'd see on the cover of an old RAWHIDE KID comic. 



Vaara is just beginning to stand and is in mid-crouch position, holding the gun in one hand and her other hand is hovering above it (to use the firing switch on the top of gun) so that she looks like she's doing a technique that fast-draw gunfighters called "fanning."

(Yul Brynner fanning a Colt SAA in The Magnificent Seven: https://netizen.neocities.org/CrimsonTears/fanning-YulBryner.jpg)



Kirby, Dick Ayres, and Larry Lieber seemed to *always* draw their western characters crouched over in comics so that is a pose that I totally associate with the genre.  

(Rawhide Kid #42: https://netizen.neocities.org/CrimsonTears/RawhideKid42.jpg)



I love a good bit of ray gun design! I'm very excited about whatever you do with this! On a tangential note - have you ever seen how cool vintage hammer drills look? 

https://netizen.neocities.org/CrimsonTears/vintagehammerdrill.jpg



BELT: ❤️ Widerøe Neutral Particle Beam Handheld. Thank you for your purchase. ❤️ 



CAPTION: Don't want to overdraft the account. I'll have to make this shot count. 

 

PANEL FOUR

She destroys all the robots with a single shot! (Almost anyway)!



Unlike traditional Star Wars-styled pew pew pew lasers, the particle beam gun shoots a continuous laser that cuts through stuff. Vaara is making a big sweeping arc across the robots and the laser is cutting / melting them in half. This scene is a freeze frame shot, robot body parts frozen in the air and falling, showing the progression of the scene, from most melted to least. 



Vaara is currently slicing through the second to last robot on the end. 



On the other end, the first robot, and most destroyed of them, is the Medical Bot mentioned earlier. Its Bone Saw arm is totally severed and falling to the ground.



PANEL FIVE

Vaara's gun has run out of laser juice just short of finishing off the last of the robots. And she's not spending any more money on this mission! Tossing the now-spent gun aside she pounces on the last robot standing and starts punching it in the head. 



The shadowy figure of Magnus Mort can be seen lurking behind a junk pile in the foreground and grabbing the Medical Bot's severed Bone Saw arm that is laying on the ground. 



PANEL SIX

There is a surprised look on Vaara's face as she turns from the droid (who she is straddling and punching in the face) to see a shadowy Magnus Mort leaping at her from behind with the deadly looking Bone Saw in hand - going in for the kill!



MAGNUS MORT (shouting): DIE!!!




PAGE 5



Our hero faces off against our antagonist at last! We meet Magnus Mort, learn about his horrific crimes, and bear witness to his terrible fate.



PANEL ONE

Judo throw! Vaara grabs the attacking Magnus Mort and falls backwards, planting her foot in his gut and rolling backwards, and flips him overhead. This is a classic Judo move called a "tomoe nage." You've seen it hundreds of times. This throw is Kirby's all-time favorite martial arts move and is all over his old Captain America comics. 



The shocked Magnus Mort flies clumsily in the air, the Bone Saw flying out of his hand. 



VAARA: Not today!



PANEL TWO

Magnus Mort's face reveal. He is on the ground, having just been on the receiving end of Vaara's Judo Throw. He is looking up from his landing place on the ground, trash all around him. He looks sad and frightened and pathetic. The Bone Saw is too far to reach and he knows he's finished. 



This is the most important detail - Despite all indications previously in this story, Magnus Mort doesn't actually look like a hardened criminal at all. He's just some scared, nerdy guy.



MAGNUS (pleading): Please no! I - I'm sorry...! 



PANEL THREE

Classic western gunfighter shot. Vaara's hip is in the foreground as she reaches for / removes the Spider-Like Contraption from her belt. In the background is a scared-looking Magnus Mort on his knees with his hands in front of him in terror. He looks too scared to even get words out to beg for his life. 



Be sure to draw the cable that attaches the Spider-Like Contraption to her Handheld Device.



VAARA 1: If it was up to me I'd kill you to set an example. And for running up my tab. 



VAARA 2: But they don't pay me for that. Just shut up and be happy the Singularity Conglomerate lets parasites like you live.   



PANEL FOUR

Vaara grabs him roughly by the head and clamps the Spider-Like Contraption down onto his head. It looks painful. Magnus Mort manages to cry out through his tears in desperation. 



MAGNUS (pleading desperately): At least let me keep my memories!!



VAARA 1: That's not how it works. You clicked the user agreement. 



VAARA 2: And your contract is expired. 



PANEL FIVE

Close up on Magnus Mort's screaming face as Vaara fries his brain with the Spider-Like Contraption strapped to his head, triggered by a button on the Handheld Device (off panel). Fry his brain! However you decide to make this effect, please do make it look really painful. 